so what you're going to need to do
listen to me closely
if you clicked on this video consider it
a contract between you and me that
you're going to watch this video in full
and you're going to want actually going
to need to do that because the data
science job outlook is dramatically
changing right now it's changing very
fast and it's changing a lot so we're
going to need to know what to do here
what do you do well I'm going to talk
about that in this video but firstly I
want to explain that data science jobs
are not close to dying okay they're not
getting automated we're getting more and
more data we're getting more and more
insights from this data if people are
going to look at it you can't just get
insights from a computer those are
machine learning models you can build
those but we still need to know what to
do with them all of this stuff we're
going to need humans for them however
the job outlook is changing a lot right
now and in this video at the end I'm
going to say one massive piece of advice
You're Gonna Want To Know a skill that
you're going to need to build so that
you are able to set yourself apart from
the competition and able to avoid the
automation of Chad GPT we'll talk about
that at the end but firstly you know
data science jobs they're there however
exploratory data analysis is not quite
what it used to be it's a lot easier to
actually get this stuff done I think
it's still very important to be able to
understand python code to be able to
understand the library so that you're
able to do things and tweak the charge
BT responses as you need to so it's
extremely important to do these things
because everybody's going to be able to
code now it's not as hard as it used to
be however if you know the skills you
are going to be much better than the
people that don't they might still be
able to use chat gbt but they're going
to struggle so of course companies are
going to want to beat the same people as
they did before they're going to want
data scientists however it is going to
be easier to fake being a data scientist
right now because what is what has
everybody been suggesting to get a job
oh a little bit of credentials and then
just Spam projects make really really
good projects no it's going to be a lot
more about actually knowing the skills
okay so you're going to need to take
courses online to get an education or
somewhere and then come back and build
projects because anyone could build
projects now like it's so easy before
what you had to do was to just grab a
Blog and then fiddle with it and then
you'd probably get an error and then
you'd fight with it I know you've done
this okay so oftentimes we give up from
that jtbt is making it a lot easier just
to build these projects online and so
you're gonna need to have all the skills
the software architecture skills the of
course the the libraries and the
Frameworks and the actual language
itself but more about building full
applications Chachi BT is great at
building code it can you can iterate
with it and build applications very very
quickly however what it cannot do is
piece things together okay it can build
individual Lego blocks but it cannot
build a Lego castle you need someone or
company is going to need people that
understand all of the Lego blocks what
each of them do and how to put them
together okay it's going to be a lot
more about actually putting things
together and of course it's still
writing code I'm not saying that you're
not going to need to write code but it's
getting faster and companies are going
to need less people to actually write
this code because like if developers are
just writing code so much faster than
they used to be I'm working on a startup
right now you'll see the results
hopefully this year I really hope this
year hopefully by the end of the summer
but I am writing code extremely quickly
right now in languages that I am
learning at the same time like
JavaScript I don't know very well but
with Chad GPT I'm writing JavaScript
code and I am using it all the time so
trust me coding is just easier than it
used to be my God but anyways chatgpt is
so so good at writing code in many areas
and so it's going to be a lot more about
knowing these individual Lego pieces
being able to put them together and 100
this is what you absolutely need to know
is gcp AWS Azure building actual
applications putting all the pieces
together to build a final product
because again data analysts data data
exploratory data analysis simple uh data
science stuff it's still useful it's
still extremely useful and I I'm not
saying that it's going away however it's
just easier you're still going to need
to know all of these skills if you're a
data scientist you absolutely should
still know python all these
visualization libraries SQL all the
normal stuff like tensorflow Pi torch
whatever for machine learning models
however your actual job is getting
easier in some ways with the you know
traditional analytics is getting easier
however it's going to merge into
building full applications okay I've
said this in previous videos it is more
important than ever right now to learn
all of this data science stuff and then
learn how to build actual applications
and you can do it in the reverse way if
you want you can absolutely build
applications and then you can learn data
science there's still going to be a lot
of roles in data science however they're
merging into doing multiple things at
the same time using your analytics to
build these applications okay now
there's still going to be those base
analytics roles where you're just doing
simple visualizations and stuff and
presenting them however it's hard to say
how many people they're really going to
need to do that because they're just so
efficient these days and more and more
people are going to be able to do that
so what you're going to need to do
listen to me closely
be really really really really really
good at your job it's not just learn
some analytics make a Jupiter notebook
and you can get a job anymore I'm sorry
you should still learn all of those
skills and you're going to need them but
build full applications learn Advanced
machine learning architectures so that
you can actually expand upon the
company's skill set build their own
Technologies out and not just be one of
the many many people that are able to do
these simple analytics you got it okay
subscribe bye bye
