if you're newer to nosql databases and
want to learn more about what they are
this video is for you
welcome back to our Channel I'm Megan
from mongodb's developer relations team
here at mongodb we talk a lot about
nosql databases because that's what we
are but what does that even mean nosql
is technically an umbrella term for any
alternative system to traditional SQL
databases nosql databases use a data
model that has a different structure
than the rows and columns table
structure used with rdbms now within
nosql databases there are actually four
types document databases key value
stores column oriented databases and
graph databases let's talk about each of
these in a little more detail first up
we've got document databases a document
database like mongodb for example stores
data in a Json or bson format you can
access store and retrieve documents from
your database in a form that is much
closer to the data objects used in
applications this means that less
translation is required to use and
access data in an application document
databases are popular with developers
because they offer the flexibility to
rework their document structures as
needed to better suit their applications
in SQL databases however intervention by
database administrators may be required
to change the structure of a database
next we have key value stores and this
is the simplest type of nosql database
every element is stored as a key value
pair consisting of an attribute name or
the key and a value this database is
like an rdbms with two columns the
attribute name such as state and the
value such as Alaska third we have
column oriented databases while an rdbms
stores data in rows and reads it row by
row column oriented databases are
organized as a set of columns when you
want to run analytics on a small number
of columns in a database you can read
those columns directly without consuming
memory with unwanted data finally we
have graph databases a graph database
focuses on the relationship between data
elements each element is contained as an
node the connections between elements in
a database are called links or
relationships connections are first
class elements of the database stored
directly these databases are diverse in
their data formats and applications
furthermore systems store data in
different ways these differ from rdbms
in that they can be schema agnostic
which allows unstructured and
semi-structured data in a network to be
stored and processed this was just the
tip of the iceberg and we've got a whole
lot more where that came from in the
description below we're leaving a few
more links to other videos and articles
that you might find helpful if you're
still here it's because you found this
video valuable and we'd be very grateful
if you could give it a thumbs up if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe to
our channel so you never miss our
content and we'll see you next time
