[Music]
so for uh those of you joining us uh
we're gonna get started maybe in about a
minute or two if you're wondering why
the olympics music is playing um
it was because
we thought it'd be funny to have some
background music so i'm going to leave
that playing for another minute or so
just wait for stragglers to join us
my
[Music]
[Music]
all right
welcome to uh folks that are joining us
today
uh thank you so much for uh meeting us
in this session this is a session that
is going to run for an hour uh it's
called human computer interaction and
user interface design
it's hosted by me my name is tony tang
i'm an associate professor at the
university of toronto and
my colleague uh if you want to introduce
yourself
hi everyone i'm anastasia kuzminik i'm
also professor at the university of
toronto uh doing research in human
computer interaction
great and this is so this is the second
session today for uh infocon 2021 so uh
hopefully you uh have been we're
involved yesterday and saw a couple of
sessions there and uh of course just as
a reminder to you uh the sessions
continue on uh through the day today and
into tomorrow as well basically for the
whole day so like if you aren't getting
enough of school right now you can uh
you can continue to sign in from eight
to five o'clock uh pacific time uh for
another eight hours of great content
from different professors and faculty
members uh uh
in i schools across
uh certainly across
the
north america no it also looks across
the world so that's really really cool
if you join the session just before this
one that is called that was called ux
and ui design careers uh uh hosted by a
colleague of ours uh mark twydale um
unfortunately at least i didn't attend
the previous one because i didn't
register in time so i don't i'm not sure
if anastasia did i have no idea how much
of the content is going to overlap
however i'm going to throw myself out
there and just say that i think none of
the content is going to go overlap uh at
least not really because ours is going
to be way way better all right so um
what's going to happen today is i'm
going to give just a kind of a 20 minute
kind of primer if you will on
what we think about is user experience
design and
not really talk about our program per se
but just kind of give you a hint about
some of the things that you would be uh
learning about and thinking about if you
were part of a high school that had a
user experience design program
following that anastasia is going to do
uh
can remember if you wrote 27
27 minute talk ish minute seattle talk
and i'm gonna show you how um academic
research informs design and show you how
our studies might look like um
and things like that
great
so i think we are i i i think we're open
to questions through so if you've got a
burning question uh even if it's not
burning but just kind of like a minor
twitch uh please uh please please oh pop
up your hand or type something into chat
uh i can tell you as an instructor
during these coveted times it is uh
excruciating uh talking to my computer
screen and a bunch of icons so if
there's something i can talk
at or respond to that feels a lot lot
better so please feel free to ask
questions at any time
we're more than happy to respond and
don't worry we'll figure out how to make
up that time a little bit later okay so
uh if if there's nothing else i think
that's basically housekeeping i'm just
going to get going here and do the thing
where i say okay let me share my screen
and fuss around with this until i figure
it out here so
um
screen is sharing we all see that it's
okay anastasia great okay so
this is the first thing that i like to
share at the beginning of many of my
classes i think this is a hilarious
example
so uh this is a story uh actually now
each year gets older and older but this
is a story from about six years ago now
i suppose
and the headline is ford recalls suvs
because drivers are accidentally turning
them off
and this is the console i'd like you to
take a look at this and to try and think
about what's going on here what's going
on that makes drivers actually
accidentally turn
this uh suv off and i will give i don't
know a virtual high five to the first
person that can figure this out really
really quickly so i'm going to give you
i don't know
10 seconds of awkward silence if you
think you've got it feel free to
populate that in the chat
in the meantime i'll stare at you
quietly
okay that is far more awkward in real
life than it is uh quietly in my office
so um i'm gonna assume that you may have
figured this out or you may not have but
i'm gonna kind of walk you through
what's going on here so this is the
console dash right so this is where you
would play with your radio and stuff
like that for a car and one of the
things that they did in this suv was
they were being very innovative and
decided instead of having any sort of
stick shift control to to go from
parking to reverse to neutral and so on
they decided to make them into buttons
along here so you can see parking uh
reverse neutral drive and this is the
sport
setting not quite sure what the sport
setting does but that's the sport
setting right there and underneath
you'll notice right here this is the
engine start stop button and so what was
happening with this vehicle is that the
start stop button was right there and
people were essentially when they were
kind of reaching over they were driving
they're like oh i need some sport mode
here they'd reach over hit the button to
to try to start sport mode but they
weren't looking because they'd be
looking up there and or their finger
would slip and then it would actually
turn their car off while people were out
driving the vehicle which is uh if you
can think about situations where you
might be wanting to switch into sport
mode kind of dangerous right
uh
and so you know for me as somebody who
thinks about user experience design who
thinks about these experiences that
we're designing for people i actually
think that for me i'm actually you know
i'm i'm a little offended by the the the
title here because i think this um this
title of this article uh as perhaps
descriptive as it may be actually um
ascribes the blame to people who are
driving the car right it describes blame
to drivers but to me this is actually a
design problem so if i were redesigning
this uh this title what i would say is
ford recalls suvs because poor user
experience is creating dangerous
situations because to me the fault
should uh lie in the people that
designed this thing not so much uh the
people that are driving the cars
uh so the title of this talk is called
the primer on user experience design and
human computer interaction what i'm
going to do today is spend a lot of time
talking about these little examples
these toy examples that i've seen in
everyday life and talk about how i think
they kind of help us to understand why
certain experiences are designed poorly
and what they say about how we should
design things
objects tools or things that people use
in in better ways
so to me bad design is absolutely
everywhere
and in fact one of the bad things about
kind of
doing a program in user experience
design is that you learn about what good
design ought to be and so all you see in
everyday life is how everything is
terrible um on the left there uh if you
are a guy that uses uh public uh
washrooms you'll understand why this is
a challenge if you are not then i will
describe the situation essentially this
would be a very uncomfortable uh urinal
situation to use uh to pee in um
particularly if there was somebody else
who was thinking about peeing next to
you really needed to go it's just
ultimately not a lot of space the
example on the right is also a bathroom
bathroom example
this is essentially an automatic faucet
and essentially it it is it this is a
situation where they decided to put up a
sign because it wasn't clear how to use
this thing right so it tells you that
it's an automatic faucet it explains you
that to turn it on you need to walk up
to the sink um
uh and to turn it off you walk away from
the sink so don't worry this thing is
going to turn itself off i think the
other thing so you know here's a sign
that tries to explain how to use the
thing right um i think the other thing
that's really interesting about this
example is that it says black clothing
does not operate faucets like and
as a former engineer in a previous
version of my life i can understand why
that would be the case but this is just
horrible right so if i'm wearing black
clothes like it doesn't work but
actually if you kind of tease apart the
language there it doesn't make a lot of
sense either because to turn on and off
you walk up and back but the clothes
don't do that so anyway i think these
are uh these are examples of of poor uh
user experience designs
i'm gonna show you this video that i uh
that i watch this is munchies this is a
a food uh a food uh food youtube channel
that i like to watch anyway i just saw
this clip the other day i thought it was
really funny and kind of on point you
will not be able to hear the audio um
but what i'd like you to do is focus on
this person right here and to think
about what's gonna happen as she tries
to go through that
that door there
okay
so if you are like me if you are like
her you have been in these kinds of
situations before where you're trying to
go through a door and for some reason it
doesn't work quite the way you expect
these are tiny little moments in your
life but if you accumulate all those
tiny moments across your life and across
all the people's lives that will go
through that door you can kind of start
to tally up how many instances of
displeasure this causes and potentially
how much time this wastes um and
potentially you know maybe how much food
is wasted as they kind of exit this
place so what's happening of course here
is that as she's trying to leave she
tries to push the door and it doesn't
work and uh and and everybody's laughing
at her and it's really funny but if you
think about what she's doing what she's
doing actually makes perfect sense this
type of handle is the push handle she is
doing the right thing or at least the
way that the the the um the object is
telling her to do it she is doing the
right thing and so when it doesn't work
it's kind of weird
you'll notice on the other side of the
door that's the side of the door that
we're sitting on um we actually see this
handle right here which is a pull handle
there's no question about it this is the
pull handle and of course here again is
a sign
that is written there that says oh from
here you need to push and so a couple of
insights here um one is that often when
you see a sign it's because the tool
itself or the object itself is not doing
a good enough job of explaining exactly
how the thing ought to be used and so uh
people that use the environment are like
oh i guess we gotta explain kind of how
it's working here or how it's supposed
to work right
okay so i feel like i'm definitely doing
the prof thing of just belaboring these
kind of ridiculous little examples and
so if you don't enjoy that then now's
the time to sign up otherwise i'm gonna
keep going on these kind of ridiculous
little symbols uh these little
ridiculous little examples um this is uh
in in the in the uh in the sort of
academic uh uh context this is what we
call a signifier so the way in which the
door handle is shaped is a signifier and
it signifies a particular way of
interacting with the thing and what we
would say here is that the design
problem is that the signifier is
actually misleading it doesn't actually
inform the person how to use it properly
and
you'll know as a person that goes
through doors you're not actively
thinking about this it's almost
unconscious you're just like oh that
handle okay this is the kind of thing i
do um but that's exactly the moment
where the signifiers matter right so
choosing the right signifiers in the
right moment for the right place is a
really really important problem
i was going through some old slide decks
the other day and i realized that uh
this uh this example which i'd like to
show
is now
truly a classic example from my
childhood and uh i i i'm curious
how many people have any idea what this
is and if you don't it's not a big deal
i'll walk you through this uh if you do
then you know exactly what i'm talking
about okay so this is this used to be
the back of uh most computers okay and
this is kind of a little bit hard to uh
explain without having like a computer
in front of me but essentially the top
part of the image that the part that has
these two little black plugs is kind of
like upright and then the bottom part of
the image where there's a green and an
orange uh icon it's sideways like this
so you can imagine that the two black
things are kind of up here and down here
i'm trying to show this in my little
video here but my my book is all blurred
out but anyway black black and then
green and red
so these two plugs are called uh ps2 uh
plugs uh not playstation 2 i can't
remember what ps2 actually stands for
but anyway they were for your keyboard
and for your mouse
and uh
they are the exact same plug right so
our mouse yeah this is back in the data
wired like wired peripherals and we
didn't have usb yet right um and so we
plugged these two things into our
computer uh part of the problem is that
usually it's behind the computer so you
can see the back of the computer but
anyway even if you could see the uh
computer um the back of the computer one
of the problems is you weren't sure
which one to plug it into right you can
see one of them is meant for uh the
mouse one of them is meant for the
keyboard and what i can tell you is the
problem with this interface is that it's
not clear uh whether the green thing
matches up with this this green thing
matches up with the top green thing or
whether it matches up with this green
thing because you can kind of easily
imagine that
two different kind of ways to think
about this maybe these two icons go like
that and so they just kind of you know
flip up like that or it's kind of this
mirror situation because you've also
seen that too where this thing matches
up kind of like that sort of like it's a
mirror type of a situation
so these are the kinds of very simple
versions of the problems that we deal
with in user experience design and i
would argue that these two design these
two solutions that you can see on the
right addresses this problem this is
what we call a mapping problem so how do
how do people map you know one uh
particular series of things to another
series of inputs so here's one solution
if you simply put the icons next to
the thing that we were supposed to plug
into that would be very clear what to do
similarly if you simply kind of use some
color coding to support that mapping
that would also help a lot and so these
are kind of simple concepts that we kind
of visit and revisit again when we're
kind of doing user experience design and
when we're doing human computer
interaction uh research in the lab
so
um i want to invite a response or two on
what you think this is i can tell you
that uh this is something i took a
picture of when i was on a trip so i'm
interested to hear what people might
imagine this uh would have been an image
of i was on a i was on vacation i think
so anything goes
jill excellent elevator buttons gold
star for you and i see moisies uh moises
uh responded a little earlier
jill and nicole gold stars for both of
you these are elevator buttons what is
okay fine jen you also get a gold star
um
let's give it a silver star with that
olympic theme olympic medal uh our
silver medal olympic theme okay anyway
so these are indeed elevator buttons
what i want to ask you now is to think
about why
like what makes this set of elevator
buttons maybe so special what's so cool
about what's going on here
ah yes
uh okay uh
i see a response here i'm sorry i'm not
quite sure how to pronounce that name
but yes there's braille on here so
braille is a way of allowing uh helping
people that can't see that well um to
read things right and so you can see
here that there is braille on each of
these
on each of these elevator buttons what's
really neat about it is uh braille is
basically these uh like little raised
bumps that you can rate you know run
your finger over and that allows you to
kind of like read text that allows you
to render uh characters and letters and
stuff like this
so the reason i took a picture of this
was it looks kind of cool so this is
some like hyper
doodad elevator where when you walk in
you don't see anything but as the
elevator door closes this cool like
projection thing happens on the wall and
so these like elevator numbers actually
start to get projected so kind of
and then you can kind of see
this is a touch sensitive elevator so
when you touch things uh it activates
things so this is okay again maybe about
five ten years ago so it's really really
cool
and so you could in fact like and so
this whole wall is basically a touch
sensitive wall
what is ridiculous about this so uh so
hopefully at this point you might be
able to see what the problem here is
right so it's a touch sensitive wall
which is super cool on the other hand
and it's also super cool that they're
embedding some braille into the
environment so that people that can't
see that well right people who have uh
vision deficit challenges they can also
use the elevator as well by using
braille
but therein lies the challenge of course
if i am a person that needs to use
braille to read the elevator to read
which buttons i'm supposed to press um
i'm probably activating every single
button by running my finger over each of
these over each of these braille buttons
so this is an instance where i would say
the heart is in the right place but the
execution is a little bit lacking to me
this is uh what i would call sort of an
obvious problem in hindsight but the
real problem is that often the designers
that are actually making the systems
they often aren't the ones that are
using them and so often they make
assumptions about how the systems are
going to be used and so one of the
things that we do in user experience
design research and user experience
design is we build empathy tools to try
to understand who our users are and so
in this case one of the things that you
would say is like okay well if you were
to do this a little bit better what you
would do is you'd you know put on
goggles that make your vision kind of
foggy and to try to learn how to read
braille and to try to experience what
that elevator would feel like that's
something we call an empathy tool
the other technique of course is that we
use prototyping so we build things we
mock things up and then we test the
designs to see if we can uncover new
problems that we hadn't anticipated
before so we actually would give it to a
set of
uh people to test out uh as a pretend
elevator we would try to find people
that we're trying to tackle with this uh
system so if we were doing it for an
office space fine find some office
workers if we were trying to support
blind users or people that have low
vision then we would find some of those
people and have them test out this
elevator interface and just to see kind
of how they experience this
experience this interface
oops
so let's move on here
i think this is a really important idea
this notion that often designers aren't
the ones that are using the systems um
here's an example i think i took this
screenshot maybe about five years ago or
something like that uh from my windows
pc i turned it on one day and then like
both of these things popped up i'm a
computer scientist by training so i have
some sense of what some of this language
means but i can tell you that even in
this moment uh so i was like i'll do the
right thing i'll hit this update now
button right so like you know as opposed
to the notify me later except for never
notify me because i never want to be
bothered about it i'm so i was doing
what i thought was the right thing and
then this thing popped up and it was a
really interesting moment where i was
like actually right now i'm not sure
what i'm supposed to do because what i
did was i told the system like hey get
the new drivers and sure fine scan my
hardware do whatever you're supposed to
do this is like maintenance stuff right
and then down here it says okay update
the system bios
and my system is going to restart and i
should close all the open documents and
exit all the running applications don't
interrupt the procedure once it begins
don't just like this sounds really
really serious and i can tell you as
somebody who kind of like grew up around
computers like i said computer
scientists by training like even this
gave me a moment even for me this gave
me a moment to pause so i was like wait
which of these things should i be doing
here i'm actually not really really sure
and then i and then if you think about
this
uh
what would that experience be like for
somebody who
isn't a computer scientist who doesn't
know what all of these words mean like
what the heck does bios mean or is it
even pronounced bios name is france bios
right do not interrupt do not disconnect
these are really really sounds like
really serious things and they're scary
sounding and i think one of the things
that we want to try to do when we build
systems for people to use build tools
for people to use build experiences for
people to use because we want to make it
so that it is
a friction free experience as best we
can we want to make it so that it is
smooth we want to make it so that
they're not scared about the
consequences of taking one action or
another
and so if you
uh maybe you don't have to imagine maybe
you've lived this experience if you
imagine yourself seeing this and you
have these two options install now or
remind me later probably what you're
going to do is hit remind me later and
if you think about all the reminder me
later that you've done in your on your
own computer and i i certainly copped to
doing it all the time myself um there's
a ton of things that my computer needs
to do that i never wanted to interrupt
me to do because i don't know what the
consequences might be and so this is the
reason why so many computers are left
not updated or vulnerable to you know
all sorts of malware and stuff like that
because you know we in practical reason
um
uh just ignore these things because
we're not quite sure what the
consequences are and i see jen has
contributed a quick comment uh where
yeah you understand what a bios is but
even then this is quite confusing right
i just another example just because just
while we're at it um right so i told you
that once you start to learn this stuff
everything starts to look terrible but
even if you haven't learned this stuff
you can probably see this thing is
pretty terrible uh this is um i took
this in washington dc this i believe is
uh it's like you get a ticket to use the
subway uh with this machine
and
um
i think if you use this all the time no
big deal but i can tell you is the first
time using this thing this is absolutely
absurd um if you think about how reading
works in north america normally you
start reading from up here right top
left you move right and then you go down
um
here the system is actually telling you
okay look at the instructions and then
over here there's in the middle there's
this big loud thing that says this
machine gives change in coins only right
super loud right and then there are
numbers that tell you to look at these
different things like insert ticket here
okay that's number one and then also
insert validation but wait does number
two mean insert coins uh and then how do
i use this thing and when do i do this
oh shoot there's an insert cash button
over here um
so maybe like presumably these are
exclusive and then you can see take
receipt is down here on the bottom left
and also don't forget to take your
change so there's a ton of things that
are going on here and if you think about
the engineering that is required to sort
of make a machine like this happen you
can kind of understand like different
pieces parts of it are made at different
times and stuff like this but really if
you're thinking about the user
experience of this machine i mean it's
awful right like where do i start where
do i end hopefully the way you do it is
you start from the top left and kind of
move to the bottom right and everything
gets done um but i can tell you that
this is in my view sort of a hopeless
interface uh kind of uh in a walk up and
use kind of situation
okay
i'm obviously overstating the case i was
able to get my ticket and stuff like
that but of course that takes time that
takes whatever five minutes of my time
and that's a real that's a real problem
uh five minutes of my time means the guy
behind me is waiting for me and getting
angry at me
okay
so i'm just going to show you a couple
other examples anastasia i apologize i
said 20 minutes i think we're going to
be 25. it's okay so you can uh you don't
have to okay so anyway i'm just uh i'm
just having too much fun kind of
complaining about the world that i live
in this is okay so i'm realizing now
this may be a function of you know being
trained in user experience design it
could also be a function of the sort of
being like an old man and just kind of
complaining about how the way
how the world is and how it could be
better right okay so this is a kind of
device that we're all becoming very
accustomed with right a self-checkout
machine
and i'm like
you know what i'm a savvy i'm a savvy
young man uh i can use these things i
don't need to you know read instructions
so i come up to this thing and you can
see here i was buying uh this is a
carpet shampoo and uh
it's an extension cable
that detail is not important for this
story okay so
basically i'm like okay so i know how to
use this thing like you just you know
you know run the thing over and hit beep
okay so i like pick up the thing and no
beep and so i'm like okay that's kind of
annoying
so i see this sign says okay please
press scanning to start beginning your
transaction okay great and i looked at
me okay please press start
this is in canada so we need to have
start in english and start in french i
speak english primarily so i hit the
start button and now i'm like okay good
i'm good to go and i tried to do it
again when i try to do it again it still
doesn't work and then this is the moment
where i decided to take a picture so you
can see here that there's a sign here
that says please press start scanning to
begin your transaction so i have to
press this button as well start scanning
um and you might be saying hey didn't
you already press start and the answer
to that question is yes i press start
two times i started twice before i was
even allowed to start scanning this is
again a minor hiccup but enough to kind
of like you know make me annoyed right
um so this is uh so the lesson here is
that signs literally written signs uh
and i think i said this earlier um are
often a sign that the customer journey
is unclear it's not clear what a person
should do about this
i'll show you one other example uh this
is from a while back uh so signifiers in
science can also be shapes of things
i'll play the video and just explain
simply that uh this was me
uh
at
i was on a date so i was trying to like
you know
you know make a good impression uh and
uh she was yeah anyway so i'll just play
the video
centered inside everything's good
[Laughter]
so once again
oh
okay
so actually that means that you need to
use two hands to use this thing well
actually you can push it with this
you can push this here oh
nobody can figure that out right
okay good
okay so when i said okay that was the
moment that i realized she thinks i'm an
income poop and i'm never going out with
this woman again
actually uh everything ended fine but
for the purpose of this story the thing
i want to point out is that this this
thing
is shaped in a in a
convex way so it kind of it bubbles
outwards and my argument here is that if
it was bubbled inwards so sort of the
shape of the indentation of a cup then
it would have been much clearer how to
use this thing okay and uh and and
here's some other examples where it's
good here i just wanted to point out
that you know sometimes we've all
encountered this kind of thing where
it's like opt-in opt-out who knows what
i'm trying to do um and the fact that
there's a long description you know who
knows what that means sometimes my
argument is that we call these things
dark patterns because they're designed
intentionally to mislead users so lots
of interesting stuff in user experience
design i know you might be thinking
yourself look i'm not going to make that
mistake but the thing is that you are
typically not your user you have your
own biases and blind spots and you are
working on a team and so it's important
to learn about techniques that help you
to kind of arrive at better designs
there's a bunch of user experience and
hci jobs that you can get out there
and they have all sorts of different
names so the typical joke is you can
pick one of these things on the left
column here and combine it with
something on the right column
and boom there you have some sort of
user experience job right so you can be
a usability analyst you could be a
usability engineer or a developer you
can be an interaction designer or
usability
interaction engineer so here's the quick
summary of my 20 turn 30 minute talk
design is everywhere objects that you
use web systems that you make use of
tools apps
physical environments libraries signs in
libraries reports that you build
good design is hard it's not easy
poorly designed things have big
consequences they're annoying to use and
when you learn good design practices as
you would in a user experience design
program you can help
make better designs so here's a quick
thing some contact info for me i'm happy
to answer questions if you want to reach
out uh and i'm definitely 10 minutes
over my time so i apologize anastasia
i'm happy to hand the baton over to you
okay just give me a second
can you see my screen
okay
um
okay
hello everyone um i'm anastasia
and uh tony
showed you a lot of examples of that
design and the reason why we started
started this session was this part
because indeed it's our highest priority
right to learn how to avoid mistakes
but another facet of our work is
designing novel technology an
understanding of what
is needed so how to develop these truly
new
types of devices software
and other technology often comes from
academic research and so what i want to
do today i want to give you a glimpse of
how it might look like on the example of
some of my work
so i'm a researcher in hci as i
mentioned earlier and my work in each
day covers a rather broad range of
research
from development of different
interaction techniques through creating
multi-device ecosystems when we use
different technology within it uh to
informing architectural computer vision
and so on and at some point i became
fascinated by this idea that we've got
two
really intelligent uh powerful entities
a human and a computer
and what we're trying to do we're trying
to put them together to make them uh
talk to each other
so that they can accomplish a richer set
of tasks right and optimize what each is
capable of
and yet developing this communication
between humans and computers um
is uh really complicated and um it keeps
being surprisingly challenging
throughout our whole story of our field
and if originally
in 80s when hci was just starting
um hcis field was mainly concerned with
how to make computers so that humans can
understand them
then now especially with the development
of machine intelligence the question is
shifting to how to make humans and
computers to understand each other
and so on one hand it becomes
more and more clear to all of us that
our ability to create a partnership
between humans and computers and
integrate computers into natural
communication is going to
define what we as a society are going to
be able to accomplish
but on the other hand we learn again and
again that building this successful
communication even just between humans
let alone humans and computers is very
challenging
so think about all the complaints we
have heard during the last year and a
half about the system supported
communication and learning right for
instance learning through zoom
so in my work i study the mechanisms of
this mediated communication
and more specifically i
explore this dynamic context
that moderates mediates defines how we
explore information how we share
information how we perceive information
in these different types of
communication
so why context and why information
well because understanding what we as
humans do and why we do it and
understanding what's going on with us
depends on understanding our current
context
so for machines to become for computers
to become human collaborators
in communication they need to learn how
to understand and even reproduce this
context
and because communication in its core is
an exchange of information the system's
ability to work with people
requires understanding of how
why
and when people share and don't share
because no matter what system's
performance depends on information and
for the same information we as humans
we're ready to share
or perceive it in one context and we're
completely against doing it in another
context
so uh today i want to talk to you about
some of the aspects of this design for
systems that aim to support this
communication with uh both between uh
humans uh right so human to human
communication and human computer
communication
and um how to have these systems context
aware so how to make them so that they
can adapt their functionality and their
behavior to the context and why it even
matters
so first let's think about what is
communication and more specifically
what's the difference between
interaction and communication
any thoughts
it's actually a very complicated
question
so i'm gonna just for the sake of time
i'm just gonna jump in um
towards the answer so if we think about
what is interaction communication in
both cases it's an exchange of
information
between several parties right so it's
always an exchange of information there
are always at least two parties involved
but in fact communication is a sub type
of interaction
and interaction becomes communication
when we start thinking that the other
side has some capacity to act
independently so when you start thinking
that the other side can make its own
choices you suddenly start communicating
instead of just purely interacting so
maybe you have seen those funny videos
when um
an elevator is a voice intro voice um
operated and then elevator doesn't
understand people and people started
yelling at it talking to it saying that
is you know making fun of them so that
is the moment when you shift from
interaction to communication
and so now
with the development of this machine
machine uh intelligence with machines
becoming this communication actor
instead of just an interaction actor now
we can view these systems as forming a
continue
from communicating through technology
such as zoom for instance skype
different social networks so when people
interact to each other through this
system
to communicating around technology such
as monitoring systems large multi-user
displays collaborative software to
communicating directly with technology
such as different conversational agents
robots and so on like alexa google
assistant and so on
and so in my research i look at how
depending on the place on this continuum
these systems have different
contributions that they can make to the
communication process and so that is how
we inform design from the research
perspective to the actual product design
so let's first look at the interaction
through these systems
for example teleconference assistance or
let's say social networks they're
designed to be a platform for
communicating with other people
but because this communication is
mediated the users often don't have
the full picture of who is on the other
side so for instance who is reading our
posts who can see and hear us on the
screen let's say right now i'm on your
screen i have no idea who's around you
what's going on there i have no idea how
you're reacting to what i'm saying right
so i do not have this full picture
and so since i do not have it uh and
people do not have it we create
something
some kind of conceptualization of who is
on the other side
something that we call the imagined
audiences
and of course what we imagine is often
very different from the reality and you
could say so what why does it matter
well it matters first of all because our
imagined audiences so this these ideas
of who is on the other side
um
determine how and what we communicate to
the real people out there
but it also defines our expectations on
how the information is going to be used
and perceived so you can think of all
the uh issues around privacy about our
sharing about
misunderstandings and communication the
efficiency of communication so all of
that has to be supported by these
systems
and so because of that we show for
instance in
with my colleagues that the role of
technologies through which this
communication is happening so this
technology is on the left side of the
continuum the role becomes to gather
this missing contextual information
about the audience and to integrate it
into the communication in a suitable way
which doesn't necessarily mean of course
to just spit it out to the user right no
we need to be smart about it and we can
develop different features um
that would support this communication
based on this contextual information
for example online forums
as one of the
situations of communicating through the
technology
how can we integrate the missing
information about the audience into the
communication process here
or for example we can present some
information about the person right we
can say how many posts they made
with response to what message they are
posting their answer right now we can
show if they have some special status on
this forum right for instance if they
are
an administrator or something like that
so that is an example of how this
information can be um
embedded into the communication
information that we can gather
and then in bad in in in the process
through the design
in other examples on social media for
instance when you can define uh who is
going to see your post right or let's
say stories in instagram you can see who
watched it right
but if you think about your experience
of using these systems think about what
doesn't really translate what is there
when you're using let's say facebook
that doesn't really
that you would want to know about your
audience but that is not supported
through the design and let's say
facebook researchers who are like more
academic researchers that's that's the
way how they're thinking about these
problems right they go there and they
start exploring what else is that that
is missing and based on that new
features are bringing up
same with zoom right for instance what
we're doing right now as i said let's
say i have no idea what's going on with
you right now there and even if
everybody would have their videos on
there is still
a lot of this context about audience
that is missing
okay so when we communicate through the
system the system needs to um together
and integrate this information into
communication and now if we move to the
uh to the right on the continuum so to
the middle we would find here the
systems that are mainly announcing this
ability of users to access and produce
the information so these are the systems
around which we're communicating
um so the examples of such systems can
include for instance public displays
right or
digital tabletops and they provoke these
spatial interactions around them
or it can be software for instance um
different like my report right or google
docs
that you share and so software provides
the interactions around content that
they provide
or help us to create
so what do you think matters in this
case
what should the technology be doing to
support this type of communication
so because these systems in the middle
are mainly augmenting this ability to
access and produce information their
main role becomes to provide this
information in the best most
contextually suitable form
and what exactly it means depends a
little bit on the type of the system for
example for the um let's say large
displays right or some physical systems
this includes being able to adopt for
let's say collaborative or competitive
scenarios right or adopt for it for the
um uh territoriality and praxamics
around uh around the device so proximix
is a uh field of the study that is
concerned with um
the the way how people organize their
space their territory
in the term was suggested and the field
was started by edward hall who was a
cultural anthropologist and what he
suggested is that there this
four
circles that exist around people and the
closest one is this intimate space then
personal space then social space and
then public space and depending on your
relationship with people you're going to
be standing on the on the appropriate
distance
between yourself so why is it why why
why does it matter to us well for
example when you're presenting
information to the situation like let's
say to an intimate couple right or to
family you can support this more
intimate interaction distance between
people
but let's say for the work situation you
have to present information so that it
would be
would be within these appropriate
distances as well
right
with software uh
so that's for physical systems with
software things become slightly more
complicated but let's look at the
example of um software for co-watching
movies and videos
so in this case people are communicating
here
around the content that this software
provides right so what do these systems
do to provide information in a suitable
format
any ideas
anything goes
on top right what what do you mean on
top
overlay on top yeah so the fact that the
the chat is on the side right so the
focus is only on the main content for
sure
you can see for instance here who paused
the video right if so if somebody stops
the video it stops for everyone
um if uh so so the fact that chat is on
the side yeah so that that the content
is is on the left so there are a lot of
aspects within it but you see here we're
not focusing as let's say in the forums
on providing this information about the
audience instead we're focusing on the
action right and we're providing
information in the form in this suitable
form
okay so so far we have discussed that
when we interact through this system
this system should be gathering and
integrating this missing context into
the communication
when we interact around technologies
their role is to understand this context
and provide the information in
contextual suitable format
and now let's look at what is happening
when the interaction is taking place
communication is taking place with the
technology
itself
and so these systems on the right end of
the spectrum are built around the idea
of intelligent agents
and this includes for instance chatbots
voice activated assistants different
types of robots social drones and so on
and since the communication here happens
with this intelligent agent the systems
tend to be heavily anthropomorphized
what is entropization it's when we start
attributing life like human-like
qualities to something that is not
actually a life
and in fact that is an evolutionary
adaptation that is something that
happens naturally mindlessly with people
and that helps us
to make sense of something that is
complex right so that is the true moment
when we're moving to the communication
with the computer system from the pure
interaction that is the moment when a
computer stops being a pure tool
and becomes a communication actor so how
do you think it would affect the role
and responsibility
in this collaboration with humans
well arguably the the responsibility of
this technology is done to be a good
communicator right to be a good
communicator part department
which includes both this ability to
recognize this
user's communication context and to
match this context in communication with
the user so from the system development
perspective it's two different sites one
thing is to understand what's going on
and another thing is to reproduce this
context in communication
and this i will show you on the example
of one of my
studies with conversational agents to
show you how this academic research can
can inform the actual product design
so the general purpose voice assistance
such as alexa google assistant or siri
for example they're becoming more and
more popular as you might know and so
more and more users are interacting with
them on a daily basis
and these systems in essence rely on
users voice interactions with a persona
for an agent
who is deliberately designed to speak
and act human-like
and because of this the voice assistants
end up being
integrated in both technological space
of the user's life so the ecosystem of
devices in their life
and at the same time in their social
space so with whom our users communicate
on a daily basis
and so they tend to be antropomorphized
right so again people start attributing
this life like qualities and traits
to these agents
for example users flirt with them
which in fact became so common that now
in popular media people joke and make
movies about it so maybe you've seen
there was a movie called her or there
was an episode on the big bang theory at
some point about that or as on this
image on this side right now hey siri
siri says we need to talk who is this
alexa person you keep flirting with
right
so it became a really
a real social thing
and you could say well that's cute but
so what why does it matter to us
well it matters because
entrepreneurization and these processes
heavily define the interaction style so
how we talk to this system
and also users expectations
trust into the system and even use cases
with this technology when people adopt
these systems
and yet we know very little about what
happens when entrepreneurization occurs
right so do we see let's say all agents
um as the same type of a person in this
case
well intuitively probably
not right but if not does it depend on
us how we perceive them or on the design
of the agent so let's say would it
differ between how i perceive the same
agent than you right would it depend on
the user or would we perceive the same
age in the same way right so we didn't
know that before
and so what we did know before is that
when we talk about
entrepreneurialization there are kind of
two sides to it
one side is that um there is this
behavioral
design so that is emotional
responsiveness the way how whose robots
for instance the way they move
now how warm they are in their
interactions their personality and so on
and on the other side there is this
physical or visual aspects of it so
let's say facial expressions or body
expressions
so your roomba vacuum would have only
behavioral traits only the way it moves
and then your like a box sculpture for
instance would have only visual ones
and so by design of course voice
assistants are capable of displaying
mainly these behavioral aspects right
the way how how they act and talk to you
but what
personality and behavioral aspects what
aspects of this of this talking matter
to users
and is there any structure there do we
think about them in the same way or no
and so we thought that if there is any
structure there then these perceptions
should be consistently different for
different agents right so let's ask a
lot of people about how they perceive
that several agents and see whether
their parents there
and we also thought that
if there is some structure there then
the way how people think about this
personality of an agent would also
define how they visual how users
visualize these agents so
how
users think these agents would look like
if they were
humans and
especially because agents um answer can
include some visual references like for
instance series i'd blush if i could
right or i think it was google's i would
hug you if i if i would have hands right
so then uh if there are consistent
differences with the way how they act
then there should be consistent
differences with the way how they are
visualized as well
and the only way how we can could look
at it was to look to compare several uh
agents
so we took three agents alexa google
home and siri and we first asked people
to
interact with them
um to talk for a little bit and then we
interviewed people so we talked to the
to the participants and we asked them
what are the like if these agents would
be humans what would they be like what
are their definitive characteristics
and then as a third step we also ask
people to create these visualizations
for each of the agent
so what did we learn there
so the main highlight about the the
perception of the character is that they
indeed structured
these perceptions and they're structured
according uh five categories um
of personality approachability sentiment
towards the user professionalism
intelligence and individuality so all of
us think about agents in terms of these
five
five categories
and it's indeed different for different
ages so for example with approachability
that's about how emotionally distant or
approachable an agent is right and the
distance and here includes agents being
snarky closed off and often they're um
given in the opposition of users
willingness to engage with this agent
and then the other side the approachable
side is is agents being emotionally warm
friendly willing to interact like
feeling more like a friend being
outgoing and chill
another example here this sentiment
towards a user that's about how genuine
versus disingenuous an agent is towards
a user and the genuine side is this
being benevolent caring altruistic
thoughtful really trying to help you
and disingenuous side is this being
inconsiderate indifferent for example
pretending or about siri one of the
participants said using her sas as a
defense mechanism
and so these behavioral perceptions are
both structured along these five
dimensions and are different for
different agents
and then we also looked at the visual
perceptions and so we combined these
visualizations into collages and we also
created a cumulative visualization for
each agent and you can see already on
the slide that they are quite different
for
uh different agents
and so we again identified there five
different
themes where these differences appear
and for example um people were talking
about the build like the physical built
mainly about the height of an age and
people were talking about the age so
let's say alexa is generally perceived
to be older and siri is perceived to be
younger
they have different facial expressions
like let's say google seems stressed and
they've got a lot of stuff and alexa is
just maybe a little bit smiling and siri
would be smiling a lot
uh and then they also have different
different clothing right and siri would
have this daring personality was
highlighted femininity so she would be
wearing
crop tops mini skirts
heels google would have this
stereotypically awkward persona and
alexa would have this cozy and caring
carrying a character with big sweaters
warm like jeans running shoes
and so on
and so the cool thing about this study
was that it showed us that indeed
there is something in the design of
these agents that defined this very very
um consistent structure of our
perception about them
and so we found that in the design
itself it was first of all the amount of
information that this agents provide and
the level of details there
um also the interaction style of an
agent so whether it's prompting you back
um
and how responsive it is to your prompts
whether it's using jokes
and the third part there was the voice
characteristics itself right so in this
case we can see that there are very few
design aspects that then produce such a
diverse perception of this agency
and so they they attacked both
behavioral perceptions and visual
perceptions of this agent
and so the main takeaway from this study
and for the design is that first of all
there's this extremely
rich socially meaningful interpretation
that comes from users
uh interpretation of
actions of this agent right and a lot of
these interpretations are very um
biased so there is a lot of social
stereotyping that is happening there but
the good news is that these stereotypes
and these perceptions they're
consistently dependent on particular
elements of the system on particular
design which gives us as design as
technology designers a stable
gateway to these perceptions as we
develop voice based artificial agents
and with that this is the summary slide
of my of my talk um
did i did i make it i almost made it um
on time so we still have about three
minutes for talks for a question sorry
if you have any questions for uh tony or
for myself would be happy to to answer
thank you
great stuff anastasia thank you uh glad
that at least one of us kept the time so
you were awesome kudos
so as anastasia said we are more than
happy to answer questions for a minute
or two i do need to hop off myself at 1
15 so won't be here a whole lot longer
[Music]
if
just
pause a bit
i uh just posted the link back to the
infocon program so uh following our
session there's a 15 minute break
and uh then the next session happens at
the bottom of the hour there so
you know sorry good morning good
afternoon good evening wherever you're
coming in from um the next session will
be a session called leave from wherever
you are skills for an evolving
profession uh and so that's going to be
given by miriam burgos marion
philadelphia harris smith chris stewart
all from the university of southern
california
um
i'm not seeing questions
uh so
i'm just gonna you know what give
everybody back two minutes of their day
i've just posted there a link to the
program my contact information
anastasia's contact information yes
except that you included there my
website which is right now um
outdated for a couple years so i
actually do have a new website um which
is going to be posted at the same
address soon so but please feel free to
send me an email
to reach out and i would be happy to
join
all right thank you very much for
attending i hope you have a good rest of
your day everybody
thank you see you all
