hello and welcome to another episode of
video analytics 101 today we're talking
about all these passwords and how they
connect artificial intelligence deep
learning machine learning computer
vision
so let's Dive Right In
[Music]
all right so let's unpack all these
different buzzwords and let's start off
with artificial intelligence everybody's
talking about it but actually it's quite
old it started in the 1960s and really
defines agents that get input from their
environment and act upon it and
depending on where we are in this
development it means different things
back then in the 60s it meant building a
simple chatbot that reacts to text input
and gets gets you an answer and you
might even think that it's a human
nowadays we mean all kinds of stuff of
our devices measuring us and reacting to
it and do stuff for us and in the future
we might really mean artificial general
intelligence so really computers that
are like humans and really think
intelligently but we are very very far
away from this today we really mean
automation so measuring the environment
and measuring what's happening and then
automating stuff based on it so that's
artificial intelligence the thing that
we all talk about all the time AI
now let's talk about something that we
don't talk so much about that's computer
vision but computer vision is all around
us computer vision is the field that
deals with the problem of making
machines see so you get an input of a
video a an image and so on and you try
to find ways how the machine could
interpret this and really see what is
happening out there good example is
Quality Inspection in manufacturing so
if you are producing bottles for example
you might use computer vision to verify
that the quality is okay and detect any
faults so this is a very typical example
it's not necessarily artificial
intelligence but it's also computer
vision but what is computer vision and
artificial intelligence is for example
making robot C that's where these two
overlap but they don't overlap 100 it's
really part of the things overlap
and now the Third Field is machine
learning machine learning also is around
for a very long time but recently has
been more prominent
and that's the idea of training systems
automatically
and letting them learn things to detect
things and react to things
and this is an approach that that is
being used more and more where we don't
have to Define everything explicitly but
it's really learning so we use data to
train it
and finally the thing that is used a lot
nowadays is called Deep learning and
deep learning is a subfield of machine
learning where we introduce the idea of
using vast amount of data to basically
completely automate the training process
we don't even have to tell it what it
should learn it really learns
automatically and deep learning and
machine learning are used everywhere and
part of it is being used in our
artificial intelligence but there are
other applications where it's not
artificial intelligence so again those
are fields that are overlapping but are
not overlapping 100 same thing with
computer vision so of course we use
machine learning and deep learning why
do we want to detect a person or a
vehicle so that's where we use deep
learning with computer vision or for
computer vision or as technology of
computer vision
but if we use machine learning for
natural language processing of course
that's not part of computer vision
but it is part of artificial
intelligence so that's where you see all
of these things really overlap in Venn
diagrams it's not a subset of each other
it's really overlapping fields
and in video Analytics we are exactly in
the middle and in this intersection of
all of this so video analytics nowadays
when we talk about it it's exactly the
intersection where deep learning
intersects with computer vision and it
intersects with artificial intelligence
this is the field that we're talking
about it's not a subset of all of this
it's read all these intersections of
these three to four Fields how to
interact together
I hope this explanation gave you a good
overview of what artificial intelligence
is what computer vision is what machine
learning is and what deep learning is so
we can all talk about the same things in
the same language if you enjoyed this
please don't forget to subscribe and
otherwise see you next time
[Music]
