I'm guessing the reason you're watching
this video now at this moment is because
you've got an interesting human computer
interaction
[Music]
um however you know that doesn't perhaps
mean you know exactly what it is maybe
you've just said it sounds like a good
idea so what is human computer
interaction well it's got two sides to
it on one side there's an academic
discipline which is about studying the
way people interact with technology and
in particular obviously computer
technology nowadays because computers
are in virtually everything it's it's
quite hard sometimes to tell the
difference
um but then there's another side to it
which is the design discipline and I
think probably quite a lot of you
watching this video will be from a
design side you're interested in user
experience design in interaction design
and so the so one side for human
computer interaction is the academic
discipline and the other is the applied
design discipline which is about how do
you create interventions with technology
that make a difference to people so one
side is studying that computer
technology and how it has an impact on
people so the way in which it works and
the other is more about saying that how
do we practically change that academic
study that inter information we have
about the way people have work
into action The Two Of course interact
so on one hand the professional
experience informs the academic
discipline and you'll probably notice
that I use lots of examples some from my
own experience some from stories I know
about from elsewhere and I use those
from all sorts of times in order to
inform my general understanding
because it works the other way around
that that academic understand that more
generic understanding feeds back into
the design discipline so so if I
understand how people interact with
individual computers how people interact
together in a group when they're using
technology how people how environments
change the way people are if those
environments have technology in then
I'll be in a better position to be able
to design things effectively for them so
these two are are intermingled
So within if you want to understand
human computer interaction if you want
to be part of this you know what kind of
things would I like you to know about
and so what what would I hope you'd
learn from studying human computer
interaction well first of all is bear
facts um there's facts about the the
nature of computers there's facts about
the nature of of human psychology
physiology there's a whole range of
things social interactions
um so there's lots of facts about that
of course the fact is you can read in a
book and I've got my own textbook that I
produced on this and um and there are
many many others um also on the web
there's vast amounts of material so in
some sense the facts are easy to get and
you will get some of those now hopefully
um when I when I talk about human
computer interaction you get some of
those fats however perhaps there's other
things which are more important
um the second thing I hope I'd hope
you'd learn from human computer
interaction is about analysis it's about
looking at the situation and trying to
make sense of it what's going on there
because if you understand the situation
then you can apply the facts to the
situation so it's about analysis about
it picking some things apart picking the
problems that you're having a part or
picking the opportunities apart and then
of course once you've done that analysis
together with the facts and knowledge
from that you can then do a design job
so you can bring these things together
in order to synthesize them in order to
create something that will be a solution
to somebody's problem
um but perhaps more important illness
than all of that obviously you need the
knowledge side and you need the skills
and to do it but perhaps the most
important thing with you within human
computer interaction particularly if you
think of it in terms of moving on into
design is an attitude of mine an
attitude that focuses on people that
sees real users real situations as
Center place
um that is seeking to understand people
however different they are from you
um and to do things which are good for
them
um and make sense in their lives so
that's that's sort of what you know our
purpose is in a way particularly as
every move from the the sort of just
studying people to actually say how do
we design something for them so it's all
kinds of things might you want to know
about these and what sort of kind of
things I'll often talk about in this in
this context so one set of things is
about the basics of design you know so
this goes from sort of processes that
people use when they're doing design and
you may be using yourself to methods of
evaluation to understanding the nature
of Human Experience
um
undergirding that is sort of fundamental
and denial lying knowledge and theories
um and some of those particularly about
the human about human perception
cognition emotion but that also leaks
into the uh understands the way
computers work as well to the extent
that it's important from a from the
point of view of their interactions with
people
um and then from a sort of practical
point of view you also need to think
about and be aware of the issues that
happen when systems are implemented
again that's partly about the way
they're implemented in the computer but
also the way in which they get deployed
into the world and this will vary from
from place to place but sort of the
general principles of how you make sure
that this wonderful system that you
designed actually gets used by people in
the real world and makes a real
difference to me
