human computer interaction is the study
of interactions between people and
computers it covers the design
programming and use of computer
interfaces it represents one of the most
fascinating emerging fields in computer
science and psychology
so what exactly is meant by human
computer interaction
human computer interaction often known
as HCI is the study of how people
communicate with computers it also
encompasses the ways in which humans
engage with technological tools and
structures Hardware like keyboards mice
and touch screens as well as software
programs or online services meant to
facilitate human to human communication
and learning are also included if you
have enjoyed the video so far we would
really appreciate it if you would
subscribe to our Channel let us know if
you want more videos like this by
hitting the like button now back to the
video HCI history human computer
interaction HCI has its roots in the
early days of computing in the 1950s and
1960s when scientists and Engineers were
the primary end users of the newly
developed Computing technology beginning
in the 1970s and 1980s researchers in
the field of human computer interaction
HCI recognize the need to find ways to
make computers more intuitive and
accessible to people with different
skill levels and learning styles HCI
development increased in the 1990s and
2000s due to the proliferation of
personal computers and the internet
computer science psychology sociology
and design are just few of the fields
that have contributed to the fields
increasing multi-disciplinary nature HCI
has developed further in recent years
with more attention being paid to mobile
devices wearable gadgets and vrar the
focus of the subject has shifted to the
development of accessible and inclusive
system designs that facilitate natural
and intuitive interactions between
humans and Technology
