let's welcome to lecture 16 confidential
games there yay
computationally game theory is what
we're doing today the news of the day is
actually a little bit old dated but
still relevant checkers
this incredibly wonderfully large
powerful game that I've played as a kid
many who play checkers as a kid gives
about solved solve do you like what does
that mean I will tell you in this
section what solve means what it means
for Jonathan Schafer and University of
Alberta is that he proved he weakly
solved checkers
which means he proved if two perfect
opponents are playing to God who
floating in the in the heavens and
they're playing checkers it's only one
God okay well I'll do I'm gonna talk
outs whatever so if they're to duplicate
himself and now that God prisons up and
now there always be a draw meaning that
these both omniscient entities who knew
the entire game tree no one would be
able to cause the other one to lose it
would buddy draw every single time
that's really cool and they proved it
they don't necessarily have a path for
every possible game that's the
difference from what I do and we'll talk
about that later bets he weakly solved
it which means he proved it but didn't
necessarily have the answer for every
game I have the answer for every game
and we'll show you some demos that do
that so today we're talking about
computational game theory and this is
what the lecture topic is little history
definitions so we're on the same page
and then I'll show you some demos
viewing system that I've built ok so a
high up sky level view ten-mile up view
of computer sciences there are these sub
pieces of computer science and you saw
human-computer interaction and next
Monday you're gonna hear a lecture from
one of our outstanding young graduate
student instructors who's going to talk
to you about the whole field of
artificial intelligence one of the
coolest fields of coming up Siri you
talk to your phone that's AI and there's
a thousand other things that are AI that
generally self-driving cars that say are
some of the coolest applications that
are happening today our AI and she's
gonna try to summarize the entire field
a very big task but she's up to it so
there's all these fields of of computer
science and AI is one of them and
computational game theory falls under
the umbrella of artificial intelligence
so similar to
what you saw it we go to see in a week
from now so you actually it's great
the Bjorn talked about the Mechanical
Turk and so this is the original
Mechanical Turk so this was a a
mechanical device in which there was a
master level player who hid and when the
like the magician who said nobody in
here nobody in here he would like move
and so it looked like it was an empty
box when they showed the players and it
turns out there's a person under there
who had a magnet to see what the board
is above and had a little arm an
armature that could control the arm
17:70 people they still pooping outdoors
and they're getting a chess-playing
robot like what are you kidding me like
how many there's like centuries in the
future right it's like a time machine in
today's day uh how does that come here
so it played a strong game of chess can
you believe it this mechanical this
mechanical robot toured Europe and blew
people away that this thing could play
like how did were they inventing
nowadays right and turns out that they
challenged Napoleon now Napoleon
somebody I would guess if he got
challenged and got embarrassed he might
not take too kindly to being embarrassed
so I'm pretty impressed they challenged
a Polina and beat Napoleon but they
played Benjamin Franklin two people
defeated all of them unfortunately so
the idea of this Mechanical Turk is and
this is why this name continues today is
it looks like it's a machine doing it
but it's really humans and that's how
they have the Amazon Mechanical Turk
idea where you can as a human do jobs it
looks like the machines doing it like
transcribing a lecture you know the
words of audio file but in fact the
people are doing it the work that's
where this came from see the purpose
person's doing their work looks like the
machine got that idea
unfortunately it burned in a fire but
they recover the chess board because the
chess board had been stored separately
so they saved that but it's kind of cool
it's kind of a shame that they lost the
original thing we're going the history
of game theory this is Claude Shannon
one of the founders of signal processing
founders of information theory a famous
person remember the name I often in my
exams I often ask you who was Claude
Shannon so make a little circle for
yourself to remember who Claude Shannon
was he's an important person in our
field the double eat there are many
fields in the EE side the electric
inside of our department in which Claude
Shannon is the old the father of that
entire field right it's pretty powerful
guy so impressive guy he wrote a paper
in 1950 that was the seminal work for
all computing AI chess-playing programs
can can get go back to their origins of
that work so he set the foundation of
what you what you had to do to create a
chess-playing program and all of the
current AI programs that play chess well
go back to his early work in this
incredible guy in fact he has something
called a Shannon number which is the
number of chess positions and that's a
really huge number so that's kind of
cool and mathematicians and theoretical
and try to get that to be a more refined
number and that's a cool thing let me
give you a cool historical sense this is
like who remembers when this happened
here's the thing Wow like three this is
such a big deal for the for the field of
AI let me just set the context up till
1997 chess-playing programs had never
beaten a human Grandmaster in a six-game
match they had beaten them in a one-off
little you know let's do a thing for
charity and then oh the computer wins
big deal but the computer here but the
humans that always said you challenged
us to a six-game match and there's no
way a program which doesn't have the
insight that we do will ever win because
humans have intuition where they can
limit their search space that ignore
massive parts of the board because they
know you know if there's a queen and the
king and another queen over here in the
corner that's where the action is so
that's where the next moves will in
their mind will go to 20 moves deep
incredible 20 moves deep in their head
they can see where the computers don't
know that and the early computers didn't
know that so they're searching
everything they're going oh what if I
hit the Queen against the wall bonk bonk
bonk is that a good thing and then I
don't know that you don't hit the Queen
against the wall that's silly
so okay 1996 so here's the here's the
history NSYNC it's a really amazing
thing and by there's a video for this I
encourage you all to find this video
it's on the YouTube there it says deep
blue beats garry kasparov 1997 but I'm
going to summarize it because I think I
do better job today okay so here's the
idea in 96 the first game is a six-game
match and with every time you win you
get a point if you tie it's half and
half okay so it's at a total of
a purse purse purse first person to
after six games has the most points wins
okay
so the first game that deep blue wins is
a classic in 96
okay so 96 days IBM thinks well we think
we have with all the parallel processing
they've built a custom machine custom
architecture custom hardware to play
chess and do nothing but play chess and
it was called deep blue and they
challenged Garry Kasparov then the best
pretty clearly known as the best player
in the world to play chess so deep blue
plays this incredible game Game one and
wins it's like it still talked about wow
that game the deep blue versus Kasparov
incredible game like the insight that
deep blue saw this really there wasn't
much insight and there was a little bit
of I'll explain how it works
there's an opening book at this some
grandmasters head gave given to it but
most of its searched most was just
brute-force search of different
positions in chess
okay deep blue loses game three and
draws to to lose the six-game match four
to two
so what that means is they were right
humans were right that you're never
gonna beat a human in a six-game match
but it came close four to two is really
close so ACM who is the kind of umbrella
organization for computing and IBM say
how about hey Garry Kasparov how about a
rematch next year and Kasparov says you
know certainly in a grandiose way let's
do it slaps the handshake BAM I'll see
you at the same time next year
IBM goes to work and goes crazy and what
they do is they study every single one
of Kasparov games he ever played
Kasparov normally was gonna play faced
an opponent will study all the other
person other opponents games I've ever
played but guess what deep blue had
never played games it only played those
six games so Casper I've had nothing to
work from of the style he was going to
encounter so they work and they add even
more grandmasters adding all of their
brilliance to the mix so now it's 1997
again humans had never been beaten it
was like the last you know computers are
fastest and how many better than us at
how many things calculation search tax
query all the things but it hadn't like
it's kind of like the shores are coming
up and we put a big big fortress and
sandbags as you can't touch chess
there's
the human about chess you can't touch it
well they shouldn't have done that
because in 97 IBM comes back with deeper
blue not deep blue deeper like we're
gonna search even deeper into the tree
so deeper blue very clever name
Kasparov wins Game one and here's the
key game - he was winning and he could
have won but he thinks they did
something wrong so he resigns it but in
fact the analysis of it was that it
should have been a tie or at least he
should have won it so he should have I
think he should have been a tie okay not
a win should've been a tie but he lost
so now
Kasparov wins one loses one now they're
tied one-one right the tied one-one
now they draw the next three games three
four five so now it's all tied going
into Game six who knows baseball
metaphors it's like you know tie game
bottom of the ninth bases loaded full
count you know the whole drama right
it's on one game all of humanity rests
on one game do you understand how this
is how this the pressure and like the
fame and it was on ESPN it was a big
deal
Kasparov the pressure got to him I think
he's the greatest player in the history
that I know of move seven normally the
game is to us how to move fifteen twenty
thirty right move seven which is still
in your opening book still the set of
moves that you normally have
pre-recorded in your head but IBM came
out with a little twist and Kasparov
messes up and move seven and by by a
couple moves later he knows it's over so
he loses in nineteen moves which is like
a blowout and what was it as he lost he
lost in the biggest way you could
possibly lose to a computer like like
that like Skynet had come online and now
the computers had taken one more step
toward taking away our humanity and they
made a whole big drama of this how the
how now chess which used to be a the
bastion of only humans the computers
owned that - what else don't they own
right you'll get the feeling that what
else don't computers own right a little
bit
it was the bit it was a defining moment
in AI history when they beat Kasparov in
that six-game match is an incredible
drama behind that and they've never
looked back they've gotten only stronger
and stronger stronger compute
hardware's faster and faster and faster
so now on my laptop I have software
that's as good as deeper blue was back
then custom machine I'm not just my
laptop anybody's laptop like the
computer hardware is fast enough now
that you can have that you're just
normal system that you play at home is
as good as this thing that beat Kasparov
it's incredible what they've done ok
it's about how much you we've advanced
in our hardware since 97 and it's also
incredible that it's no longer even a
question
you can't be human you paint you can't
be computers anymore we're sorry okay
they just don't lose you cannot a human
cannot beat them that's the feeling or
can they
game theory is three different pieces on
this campus if you say hey you game
theory you're probably going to be in
the right column economic game theory an
economic game theory is the Department
of Economics has people who have won
Nobel prizes in game theory so that's
usually what they mean that means like
an auction or a prisoner's dilemma if
you've heard of that basically
simultaneous moves the goal is
maximizing profit very economic right
combinatorial game theory is a small
subset of computational game theory
which is board games like the kind you
played it at home okay board games -
player board games with no chance that's
basically what we're thinking about here
there's a small subset that are really
cool and really powerful in which you
win by getting the last move and that's
a really special thing and that's it so
there's a small little subset of that
but for the most part most of the board
games you solve we have to solve with
computer horsepower which is why we call
it computational game theory or solving
board games with computer horsepower
which is what I do that's the center guy
okay so what board games do you mean
well board games that have complete
information that is both players have
all the information needs to have for
that game and there's no chance so
there's no dice and no cards any game
you have a dice and cards sorry it's out
can't come into them can't can't can't
play but everything else is in there
so go chess checkers not backgammon
because that's dice tic-tac-toe
I'm hundred others five in a row connect
four fellow reverse I Chinese checkers
Chinese chess all those things are games
that you'd have to use computer
horsepower to solve okay and the game
can it anyway
doesn't have to end with getting a last
move as convert or game theory is this
is the only math you have to have that's
the only part that's a little hard for
this the rest was just kind of
expositional and tell you how this stuff
works so for every position in the game
that is every snapshot of the board
including whose turn it is on the board
so I'll give you a photograph that says
here's what the board looks like and
here's whose turn it is it's white to
play or it's red to play or it's blue to
play there's one of four categories of
positions it's really simple from the
person whose turn it is from the point
of view of the person's turn is remember
the bottom of the board it says wipe to
play so that means for the white player
it is either winning which means there
exists to move you're assuming always
alternating play in this kind of simple
game there exists to move a winning move
the winning by the way is green there
exists a winning move which yields a
losing child for you okay this is
recursively defined by the way you know
you guys know recursion so you can
understand this a losing move is one in
which all the moves are losing therefore
all the moves that you do yield a
winning for the other person so there's
nothing you can do you're kind of in a
corner nothing you can have no way out
at I move is one in which there does not
exist a winning green guy but there does
exist a tie and ties better than losing
so you'll take the time move rather than
take the losing move so you ignore these
bad losing moves on the left of the tie
and take the time ooh because that's the
best thing you can do and the draw is
one in which the game can go on forever
like two kings just move it around
forever and neither of them can force a
move a win or you force the opponent to
lose for that okay we care about
remoteness also which is how long until
the game is over like maton three they
would say remoteness is three okay so
that's something so I lead a research
group and I'm really proud that we've
had tons of students who have contribute
to this codebase and we now have 70
games and puzzles in our system and we
strongly solve our art we strongly solve
our games and strongly solve means we
salt we know the value and we're all
done we know the win lose tired draw
value for every single position ever in
that game it's not just in that
particular path but it's for any game
ever I know the answer unlike sweetly
solving where they've proved it but they
don't actually know for every position I
know
for
position that's a big distinction you
should make okay so let's go see what do
you mean by strongly solved an so let's
go see a video so the movie wargames the
whopper computer runs amok and starts to
try to decode the encrypted key to the
missile launch codes if it gets all ten
digits it launches the missile and they
decide to teach the computer go back to
view they decide to teach the computer
if I can have the computer play
tic-tac-toe and learn that tic-tac-toe
it doesn't matter how you start you
can't win maybe it will extrapolate that
thermal global nuclear nuclear war is
like that it's a tie game you can't win
it all does matter who goes first okay
doesn't matter when it's first strike or
second strike you're gonna lose war same
as you would never be able to win
tic-tac-toe okay it hasn't learned is
there I'm going to make it play itself
yes number of players zero
damnit
eight assistant
kindly called sack get me in launch
status report late today
give me the president yes sir
make that ground faster all landlines
out of the mountain they're dead I'm
trying to break through all the
satellites okay
learning
and so I leave that in there and pause
that because what is he saying to play
what is that what do you conclude now
about chess either too big to solve
which is the right answer or he might be
implicitly saying that chess is not a
tie game and if he's really smart if the
computer is very smart
it has solved it and it's going first
which means it's giving itself the
advantage and it's gonna win the game
always so it depends whether you read
into this through the script whether
it's not-it's implying that it solved it
or implying that it's hasn't solved it
it's still fun to do because it's too
big to solve it is to be to solve by the
way so how does weakly solving a game
different from strongly solving a game
in the weekly version here's how it
works the game space is too massive
the reason Jonathan Schafer didn't
strongly solve checkers not because I'm
smarter than him but he didn't do it is
because checkers is too big
checkers is way too big too strongly
solve to get to all the dots in there
imagine is a big vessel and up and down
and the y-axis is the number of pieces
on the board you start 24 pieces on the
board and you end with 0 or 1 but one
actually in that one case and so what it
does is it the way he and everybody else
who does weak solving they do a
bottom-up search you start with all the
possible positions for one piece on the
board
we need like you just made a move and
then you back up and say what if it's
one at one versus one and what if it's
two verses one and two versus two and
you keep backing your way up okay so
you're kind of filling the vessel
completely you go through every possible
combination of having those pieces
so you're strongly solving the bottom of
the search space the end games okay they
do this in chess by the way they
strongly solve the end games and you can
now download a chess endgame database
which has all the possible perfect play
for now six pieces and fewer and I think
even they have a seven piece endgame
database available and then what he does
is start from the top and kind of have a
search thing which says well what if you
did this so my I do this and then what
if you do this I do this until you get
down to the endgame and you say okay I
know the answer is there I don't think
searching below that so you basically
saving time by doing that so you have
these workers in parallel trying all
these combinations in order to try to
prove that the game is a tie or a win or
lose and they were successfully able to
do that with checkers so they didn't
visit a whole vast number of positions
in their search space which is really
cool and they will look do that in such
an elegant way to kind of sample the
search space in the appropriate way to
prove that it's a drop
ok so let's actually do that right now
for a game and this is always where the
people who are really paid in to get
this ok focus for a second this is a
game I'm going to teaching you right now
ready go the goal is to player game the
sum the shared some starts at 0 this is
a 0
ducks are on the table and on your turn
you can add one or you can add two ducks
to the table the person at the end of
their turn who after making their move
looks at the table and there's perfect
ten ducks in a row that person wins so
the person that makes the total ten wins
and all you can do is add one or two to
the current running total ok so that's
an example so anna starts with 0 says
i'll add 2 to make it two ducks ok Bob
says I'll add one to make it three ducks
and it says oh I'll add two to make it
five bob says two to make it seven so
you say this is how much I'm adding to
make it the sum and that's the photo if
seven ducks in a row after Bob's move
and it says oh I'm gonna win one to make
it eight and back was ah two to make it
10 and Bob wins cuz Bob made it 10 does
that make sense okay so I want you to
tell me is that is one the game was
called by the one to ten because you can
say one or two and the goal is to ten
okay so is one to ten a first player win
in which if you go first you can always
win our first player lose in which if
you played against a perfect player
you'd always lose going first or is it a
tie or is it a draw so yeah sure right
what's your name says I said you win if
you go first is it Daniel do you think
ah lose go first now it isn't
necessarily what you did but you're kind
of stepping back to see like what would
the perfect person do what would a
perfect player do okay so who wants to
argue whoo yes right in the back well
that's interesting
what's your name
tad well done how did how did you come
up with that it's true if you hit seven
no matter what you do you can always
guarantee when I say you hit it means
you give the other person seven right
right you know what I say you take seven
it means that I make a move to get to
seven but then it's their turn with
seven in front of them that's what I
mean so it's if you're looking at the
board it's your turn in at seven then
that means seven is bad I'm hearing
right so seven is bad because you don't
want to have seven to start from because
if I have seven whatever I do if I say
one you say two to make it ten if I said
to do you say want to make it ten so
seven is bad why seven bad because 10 is
bad
what's 10 if it's my turn in its tendon
I win or lose I lost because the other
person got to 10 the action is getting
to 10 is the winning thing so if I'm
sitting to 10 I got a big goose egg here
so 10 is a losing position
why is 7 also losing because it's the
one it's you can always guarantee to get
from 7 to 10 if you have 7 I can give
you if I if I give you 7 I can arrow to
give you guarantee to give you 10 and
what's that
there's 3 apart and you back up that
means that 4 is losing
therefore 1 is losing exactly right well
done tad all right
is that cool so it is the case that one
is losing therefore 0 which is the game
is winning and what's the winning move
one go first and say one now your
opponent has the losing goose egg of one
and they're also going to have the four
they're also gonna have this 7 then also
you have the 10 which means you've got
to 10 and you won isn't that cool
good stuff right so you guys strongly
solved
one to ten isn't that cool so now you
can all first on a you could always beat
your friends that's kind of cool right
hey let's play one to ten let me go
first one right and you all what's the
perfect strategy by the way can you
summarize this strategy into a couple of
words need to make a big table of if you
have this and I do an instant if you
have this I did it I mean is it the
table based solution or what you might
have like a way to kind of summarize
that somehow how do you get yeah go back
you make that's exemption aim Evan
everyone exactly right you make the
total between you and your opponent
three which is to say you say the
opposite of them you say one I say - you
say - I say one that's three always so
in one sentence go first say one and
then say opposite you will always win
that game isn't that cool
so you strongly solved it and that's the
solution and that solution was really
beautiful because you could summarize it
in one sentence
how about chess chess maybe a win but
you certainly are gonna be able to sell
statisti to summarize a solution in one
sentence right maybe add tie who knows
maybe a draw so here's a game
tic-tac-toe
who's played tic-tac-toe before okay
who's played misere tic-tac-toe before
in which is their french word in game 3
parlance what it means is whatever was
the win or lose is the opposite now so
if three in a row were a win which it is
for tic-tac-toe three in a row is now
I'll lose so three row is now bad three
turnout is now poison you know what
three in a row all the strategies you
grew up practicing you got to like
forget them because you want to not do
that you will not want to get three in a
row right so Wow what is three in a row
now what is sorry what is Miz there
tic-tac-toe win lose or tie
who knows I don't know normal taquito is
that normal tic-tac-toe is a time so
what is misère turns out it's also a tie
but how do you maintain that tie there's
a matter where you go at the beginning
by the way the game of tic-tac-toe is so
cool because it doesn't actually matter
where you go at the beginning you can
keep that tie going any one of the
squares kind of cool
okay how about misère tic-tac-toe well
let's think you never want to go where
what Square has the most things through
it two three in a row that you want to
avoid the middle right so you never go
the middle so it's got to be one of the
edges of the corner well how about the
quarter how many three two rows on this
is the corner three right this way this
way and this way
how about the edge though just two right
so the edges are the better thing to go
through so having the edges and then
maybe if you forced into the corner
let's try it shall we
cyber system here we go let's play
together this is my system that has
strongly solved it and we're gonna see
if we can win come on class you guys
give me a thing
sugar corner or edge edge let's count
them one two nine one two three four
five six seven eight nine ready top room
okay
edge okay so I'm doing so well I'm
pretty good okay
I'm gonna stay with the edge let's stay
at the edge right okay like this one
right it's pretty good yeah okay yeah
all right how about the other end she's
giving the edges to me I love it that's
what I want to go anyway I'm so happy
I'm like rock I'm giving a little shimmy
a little shimmy nananana name I'm doing
my tic-tac show shimmy and then oh okay
well let's see I don't wanna go to the
middle okay and I don't want to block
him so I'll go over here cuz that's
obviously I'll leave this chance for him
to get this is the only way for him to
win for him to lose was the poison there
so I'll go over here and totally rock it
ready there and then
and maybe that was a good place
maybe I well maybe I'll have to go here
cuz I can't go in the middle I'll try
over here I'll go here that'll be there
and then and you start to ask yourself
where did I mess up if only so that said
together class if only we had a system
and or only we had a system that would
be able to tell me perfectly what to do
here well how about value
there's my little stop light and you see
that every that move is bad right that's
a losing move let's undo to find our
green mover I want to find our winning
move so let's undo this where's my green
and yeah okay let's undo again there's
got to be a green back there right and
then let's undo it come on one of those
gotta be perfect let's undo again and
yeah
whoa this is what you call by the way
this is the beginning of the first time
you've seen a research result you
predict a hypothesis that going the
middle is bad you then solve it and your
computer tells you what the surprising
result just like the V that generates is
really cool fractal thing that you were
surprised I was surprised almost the
point of calling home when I found this
result I thought this is the coolest
result I've ever seen in which my Hall
intuition was totally broken
in which the old one square I thought
was the worst place ends up being the
only place that you can keep your tie
and let's see if we can figure out how
to do it ready
let's click there and notice there's
only one place to keep my tie the chance
that I choose that it's very low right
it's one in seven there's only one place
to move to keep my tie there's only one
place to move to keep my tie and it's
always where exactly the opposite of
where the opponent went why is that
because there's two cases of three in a
row there's a three in a row through the
middle and through your oh not through
the middle right agree well they'll
never be a three road through the middle
because if I do that strategy of me in
the middle my opponent and
me that every path of the middle would
be like opponent me me and they'll ever
be me the middle three in a row okay you
agree with that
opponent me me and they'll never be won
on the edge why cuz I'm always the
opposite of my opponent so for me to get
three in a row on the edge would have
met my opponent just got three in row
before me on the edge because I was
copying them in a little mirrored way so
I'll never lose by doing that and that's
the only way to do it isn't that
fascinating and wonderful there's like
beauty is beauty in that search tree in
that tree there's beauty which is that
kind of always the opposite is the only
way to keep that balance of a tie it's
really very cool that's awesome I love
that okay so so you say well that's cool
damn but how do I what's this silly
color thing in my hand you're gonna say
well and those are you online make sure
to download the PDF of this thing okay
so on the outer rim is the value of the
game itself which is a tie and then I
show you the value of the move to that
position remember the picture of Tic
Tacs how I showed you with the yellow in
the middle and red around that I have
nine boxes here the nine big boxes on
bezier tic-tac-toe show you the basic
first move and then you say what if you
were what if my opponent were to go in
the top right let's just think that if
my opponent goes in the top right my
opponent's making a losing move by the
definition going back to like slide four
of game theory if my opponent makes a
losing move I have a winning position I
should be able to win and winning
position and what is is one in which
there exist so when he moved actually
win what is that when he move I don't
know let's zoom in on that box and see
where the green is so that zoomed in
picture is what would have happened what
I would have seen in my screen if my
opponent had moved in the top right I
would have seen those eight boxes why
are there eight because I can't go on
top of my opponent's piece there's only
eight free spots that's why there are
eight squares there and you'll see from
that picture that the only way to win if
my opponent goes in the top right is to
go in on the edges all foragers are
equally valid for a win isn't that cool
so that is the secret
you now have the tic-tac-toe and
brassiere ticked I tell answer key in
your hands which means you can make the
first couple of moves perfectly and it's
up to you to kind of finish the game off
but it'll East gets you down the right
path isn't that great
it might give to you guys so you follow
it up and there's a cool picture and
it's a recursive beautiful fractal
picture and it's beautiful
so to revisit I have a game theory group
it's called games crafters and I
encourage any of you who think this is
cool stuff to come join me I have
projects of all kinds that can even be
relevant and fun and engaging for a cs10
graduate so if you like this stuff come
on talk to me next semester and let's
populate games crafters with more stuff
our group has solved Kinect for like
what my group has solved kind of it's
been done before but never been done and
put online
you now have can go to a website the
website that's on the top of this slide
and you go to that site with your
smartphone and you will never again lose
and connect for did he say never again
yes never again if you go first and
follow my advice of my program never
again lose and connect for in conclusion
game theory the borscht the game trees
are exponential them the word
exponential means it grows faster than
linear cubic and quadratic however so is
computer processing power increasing
with parallelism and all that so what
that means is every couple of years we
gain another move that we can look into
the game tree okay will never that said
will never solve some games like go is a
go search base is 3 to the 361 how many
is that that many positions let's just
keep looking that many positions folks
never in anyone's lifetime in the
history of the universe will you solve
all the positions of go that said you
might have a nice smart AI that will
play it pretty well but you'll never
strongly solve go ok so weak solving
means you prove it
strong solving is what I do which is you
go everything ok
