hi guys this is a Claudio motion
designer from Brussels of Belgium today
we are going to talk about the languages
for data visualization and animations
there are essential tools for conveying
complex information in account size and
easy to understand way there are a
variety of programming languages out
there that can be used for these tasks
some are better suited than others for
the job of course whether you are a
novice programmer or an experienced one
learning the best programming languages
for data visualization and animation can
help you create effective graphs and
charts from JavaScript to python to
After Effects and Beyond today we are
going to explore which are the best
programming languages for data
visualization as well as the advantages
and disadvantages of each one so let's
see in detail which are these languages
JavaScript
JavaScript is an object-oriented
programming language that's mainly used
for client-side scripting although it's
often used for front-end web development
JavaScript can be used for many others
data visualization and animation tasks
such as creating interactive graphs and
charts for example
d3.js is a popular JavaScript library
for visualization but it's not the only
one there are literally tens and tens of
lib libraries that you can use to create
data visualizations and interactive
animations
as I said there are many other libraries
and tools that are compatible with
JavaScript making The Versatile
programming language JavaScript is an
easy programming language to learn and
get started with making it a good choice
for beginners additionally JavaScript
runs on every device and platform making
it an excellent choice for creating a
cross-platform applications
python
python is a general purpose programming
language that is often used for data
analytics and data science and
scientific Computing it has a wide range
of libraries and tools that allow you to
create sophisticated data visualizations
and animations for example the
matplotlib library allows you to create
the charts and graphs and the Seaborn
Library allows to create statistical
graphs very easily the Python
programming language is an excellent
choice if you are looking to create data
visualization and animation with a lot
of complexity and details
python is also easy to learn and has a
friendly syntax making it a good choice
for beginners since python is a
cross-platform and open source it's
widely used in many Industries and
organizations which means that it has a
large and active community of users and
Developers
C plus plus
but C plus passage is a general purpose
of programming language that is used for
everything from web development to
computer graphics
it's a compiled and object-oriented
programming language that allows you to
create sophisticated and detailed data
visualizations C plus plus has many
features that make it an excellent
choice for database and animation such
as the ability to handle large data sets
and high performance functions
it has a larger number of libraries and
tools that you can use
for data visualization such as the
opengl library which is used to create a
3D computer graphics
plus plus is a relatively difficult
programming language to learn and isn't
ideal for beginners it is however a good
choice if you are looking to create a
detailed data visualizations with high
complexity
processing
processing is a programming language and
environment that is used for visual arts
design and computer art it was
originally developed for artists and
designer to create visual art pieces and
images
processing Simplicity and ease of use
make it a good choice for new
programmers to create data
visualizations and animations
additionally its cross-platform
compatibility makes it a good choice for
creating web visualizations
to visualize your data you can use the
built-in functions to create the
interactive graphs and visualizations if
you are looking to create more complex
charts you can use the programming
language which is similar to C plus plus
on Java and allows you to create a more
sophisticated and detailed pieces
[Music]
Matlab
Matlab is a programming language and
environment for technical computing
personally I used it for the first time
during my engineering Statics at the
University it's commonly used for
Advanced Data animations and
visualizations such as 3D
visualizations all thought it's mainly
used for more advanced and Technical
visualizations Matlab is also suitable
for non-programmers who are just getting
started with database it's a
cross-platform and open source making it
a good choice for web visualizations
r r is not only a letter of the alphabet
but it is also an interpret programming
language
designed in 1993 for statistical
Computing and graphics it's commonly
used in data science and Big Data
applications or data visualization and
animation are Essentials
are these reviews and accessibility
mechanical choice for non-programmers to
create visualizations additionally it's
across cross-platform and open source so
this is a good choice for web data
visualizations projects
or has many built-in functions that
allow you to create statistical graphs
and visualizations
if you are looking to create more
complex data visualizations you can
create more complex functions as our
supports procedural programming with
functions and for some cases object
oriented programming as well
after effects
after effects is a visual effects and
Motion Graphics software used to create
visualizations and animations it's
commonly used for Motion Graphics and
web animations transitioning between
scenes and animated graphics in general
it has a lot of built-in functions and
tools that allow you to quickly create
animated videos After Effects also
allows you to create very artistic
animations you can create graphs and
charts either 2D or 3D with ease if you
are looking to create more complex data
visualizations you can use the scripting
languages
and expressions which are included in
After Effects and are based on
JavaScript
if you are a motion designer and need to
create a bar chart races and bytes pie
charts you can choose Barber chart which
is a bar chart race script for After
Effects but if you don't like script in
our expression so there's really large
number of data visualization templates
for after effects on the internet I'm
gonna link leave some links in the
description below
foreign
data visualizations and animations with
programming languages is a great way to
present data in an engaging and easy to
understand way when choosing which
programming language to use you should
consider your skill level the complexity
of your project and the oppressed in
system of your target device or platform
note that you know more about the best
programming languages for data
visualization and animation it's time to
put your newfound knowledge to good use
ultimately the best choice of language
or framework will depend on your
specific needs and goals as well as your
existing skills and experience it's
worth experimenting with different
options to see which one you find the
most comfortable and suitable for your
tasks so thank you very much for
listening subscribe to my channel if you
are interested in this kind of video so
put a like if you enjoyed this video
thank you very much and see you next
foreign
