what is human computer interaction and
honestly it's a great question because
just the name human computer interaction
is kind of weird and very vague and
actually the degree in general is pretty
vague so what is a human computer
interaction degree and is it worth it
and do the costs outweigh the value my
name is Sasha C I'm actually a ux
designer so I am actually currently in
the field getting a masters at DePaul
University in human computer interaction
and I want to tell you guys a little bit
about what exactly it is what to expect
and if it's actually worth it so people
are fascinated including myself by the
connection of computers and people now
there are several different fields of
study that are growing dedicated to
algorithms and studies and research just
based on ways on how technology can help
improve people's everyday lives so what
exactly is human computer interaction
what do these weird words even mean so
I'm actually just going to read a
complete definition and then just kind
of give my own definition so human
computer action is an area of study that
involves better understanding
so now
muskription of what HCI is so HCI is a
really broad term and it's really just
the development and research of ways you
can improve people's lives through
technology that's the best way that I
can really describe it you have to like
kind of understand that you're
incorporating so many different things
you're considering the user the business
behind whatever you're making so you
have to understand what the goal is for
whatever you're making are you trying to
make money are you trying to educate are
you trying to entertain and then you
also have to work with what's actually
functionally possible such as like
developers if you're like putting
together this prototype and you give it
to a developer and they're like yo I
can't do this it won't work there are so
many different jobs in that field it is
kind of crazy so specifically just for
example I'm a ux designer this is really
just the idea that I design systems that
improve either businesses or people's
lives every single day so personally a
lot of the clients that I work with are
actually business related so a lot of
the things that I'm working on are
technologies that can help improve
business functions and business value
there are research scientists where
literally like apple or Microsoft will
hire you to literally just do simple
research on the process of how people
are using their technology and then
there are product designers they really
focus on more visuals I'd say they focus
on like UI elements how people visually
interact with interfaces online and that
goes into another role which you can do
which is UI design which is literally
just developing user interfaces and a
user interface is pretty much just
anything that a user can interact with
so think of your iPhone screen that's a
user interface or a website that is also
a user interface there are information
Architects and this is pretty much just
the research of how people are
processing information when going
through a design process and I actually
think this one can go past just
technology I've seen information
Architects work on things such as like
Hospital systems where physical patients
are actually going through a system and
they're really researching the process
that each patient is going through and
developing a better system for it and
just to list off a couple more things
you can be a tech startup a computer
programmer a systems engineer really a
lot of front-end development and front
end really means like the visuals and
what the user is seeing so getting back
into the major a little bit and why
exactly you would want to study human
computer interaction other than just
getting these jobs if you're interested
in any of these things I'd probably say
that yeah you should probably look into
it and see if it's a right career path
for you if you are interested in solving
super complex problems you love working
with other people pretty much all day
you enjoy working with computers you
have a base understanding of how a
computer works and you're looking for a
challenging yet fulfilling job which
honestly pays pretty well that's that's
another good side note and if you really
want to make impact on people's lives
through technology then this is the
right major for you so just to list off
some of the classes that I've taken so
far at DePaul University studying HCI
I've completed user research methods
statistics and data analysis website
design scripting for interactive systems
HCI fundamentals Global user research
learned Center design Behavioral Science
and user experience those are literally
just a few classes that I've taken so
far but that kind of gives you a little
bit of an idea of the classes that you
will be taking so the reason you guys
are here is it worth it getting a HDI
master's degree
I would say yes however I think this
goes person to person you should always
be outweighing your costs how much it is
to go to whatever school that you
applied to and if the value really
outweighs how much you're paying and
fortunately when it comes to HCI I think
the knowledge and honestly just project
earnings that you get when in school far
outweigh the cost that you pay this is
just me but that's my opinion now since
I'm actually working in the industry at
the same time getting my Master's Degree
you may be asking why are you doing that
and honestly it's just because I love
learning about the topic and I think
getting a master's degree in it just
proves that I'm really passionate about
it it shows employers that I'm really
wanting to do this for a living and it's
something that really excites me it's
also worth noting that you get paid more
when you have a master's degree in it so
yes in the end I do think it is worth it
getting the degree I think you'll enjoy
the studies a lot and you will be
challenged a lot a lot of this is a lot
of theory and idea seeking understanding
statistics and data analysis that is all
really critical when doing user research
and honestly some of it cannot be very
fun like I said there are so many
careers that you can really go down and
that alone I think is worth the HCI
component so one thing that I also want
to know because people ask me all the
time is will you have to code in this
degree and yes you will only for a
little bit though my introductory
classes were a lot of coding usually a
lot of front-end coding I didn't really
do a lot of like back end but you will
have to learn like JavaScript HTML CSS
just the basics you're not going to be
like developing a super complex app but
you will be making interfaces and making
things that people can interact with
you'd be surprised how quickly you can
catch on and finally before I end the
video obviously you have to gain
experience you're not going to get these
jobs like that just by having a degree
you do have to work a little bit find
some clients maybe yourself and get some
knowledge in the actual field because
there are so many skills that the degree
may not teach you such as like inner
personal skills that you'll have to do
literally just in business so I hope
that gave you guys a little bit of an
idea of what human computer interaction
is because it is a very odd name for a
degree however I cannot recommend the
degree enough I've learned so much and
I've had so much fun learning everything
in it if you guys want to know anything
else or have any questions feel free to
comment in the comment section give this
video a like give me a subscribe I'm
uploading every single week so I hope to
catch you guys in the next one I'm out
peace
