have you heard about chat GPT are you
wondering whether you can use it to
create project management artifacts such
as a project plan well if that's the
case then you've come to the right place
because today I'm going to be showing
you exactly what this tool can do and
whether or not it is something that you
could potentially use so I've got on the
screen here I've put in one of um one of
the first kind of prompts just to show
you what chat GPT is if you are yet to
use it maybe you've heard about it I'm
not quite sure or maybe it's new to you
all together so this is what chat GPT is
telling me from a prompt where I'm
asking it is essentially what it is so
if we look here it is essentially a
larger language model developed by open
AI which by the way is kind of owned by
Microsoft basically what it does is you
input different prompts and what it does
is it gives you different responses
based on a data set that I believe goes
back to 2021 one that's almost looking
at a load of data across the internet or
that was published before that time it's
still in a development phase so do bear
that in mind and it's also has a lot of
interest at the moment so sometimes you
can't access the tool maybe you have an
account already if you do like myself
here I can log in and start using it if
you don't you may be brought to a page
that says it's kind of being used and it
is a kind of maximum capacity and you
might not be able to use it at the time
that you want to so just bear that in
mind there is a pro feature as well
which um
will help you to access it in times of a
lot of usage but yeah just thought I'd
give you that kind of context what I'm
going to show you now is how you can
actually use chat GPT to create a
project plan so
one of the things I'd just like to
quickly note is that
chat GPT is most effective when you kind
of get your prompt the kind of more
information you provide in your prompt
so I've already thought of this ahead of
time of course you may want to adapt
this it will depend on the project
you're running and you also might want
to play around with it
um but this is one as an example I'm
going to be doing it for a marketing
project to show you what this tool can
do and how quickly it can do it so what
I've put here is create a project plan
in tabular form for a marketing project
and if we hit this button here it's
going to create it for us so here we go
it's kind of going live sure here's an
example of a project plan for a
marketing project in tabular form and as
you can see here it is starting to build
it out so
you've we've got the task description a
start date and end date and a duration
and what it's doing here is it's
actually giving us sample tasks as well
so obviously this is very very quick
it's very easy it's a very very basic
project plan don't get me wrong
um but it is one nonetheless and it
gives you some ideas for tasks as well
so consider this as a first draft and
that's one of the benefits of chat gbt
is that you'll notice this when it
finishes
um you can ask the the tool to expand
upon what it's already done
um so we'll wait for it to finish and
I'll see what I mean
so at the bottom here it says note this
project plan is just an example and will
vary depending on the scope of the
marketing project the timeline and task
can be adjusted accordingly so what we
can do at this point is we could ask you
know could put in a couple more prompts
such as provide more tasks
we could we could add other prompts such
as provide more Milestones or
alternatively we could add something
like provide more columns
for data capture as an example and let's
see what happens as I say I don't know
what this is going to provide me it's a
new tool it's developing all the time
um but as you can see here it's given us
much you know much a much more expanded
product plan that you may need so and
again it's going to add the task so this
is the kind of thing you want to do with
it you want to give it a response give
it a prompt and then if you need to you
can always add to it by adding extra
prompts and that's what's great it kind
of uses the former response and builds
upon it so the next thing that we could
do is we could then say something like
provide provide this project plan with
milestones and subtasks as an example
so what I would suggest that you do is
head over to chat GPT and and stop
playing around with the tool what you
can do I'll just wait for it to finish I
could press the stop generating button
but I'm not going to let's just let you
know finish this let's finish so that I
can we can have a kind of completed
version based on
um the the problem that we've given it
so hopefully this will be done
I don't know how long it's going to go
this is very uh comprehensive this one
but yeah as I say this this is a
template so you can you can adapt this
um or you can use it for ideas this is
not going to be a finished thing
um or a finished project plan and it's
not gonna maybe apply to every type of
project
um you know you might want to type in
something like um create a project plan
in tabular form for a I don't know uh a
technology project or a finance project
or you could um you could even say
create a project plan with the columns
and then put them in quotation marks and
it will build it for you obviously in
that use case it's probably not going to
be quicker than just going into Excel as
an example but what I wanted to show you
here
um look we've got some context as well
if you wanted to look into it but what
you can also do and this is where the
speed comes in
um is you can select it or I've got
shift on my keyboard held down and I've
selected the whole table a control C and
if you go into Excel and Ctrl V
you'll see it's literally brought it in
with some formatting as well you've got
the gray kind of tabular
um for um formatting and then obviously
you can just change this by default it's
that so go fun we can change this to
collaborate as an example make it a bit
bigger you know you can you can change
with the formatting but you know you
have got a
um a product a basic project plan that
you can build from here you can get rid
of all the tasks and you could just have
the columns but yeah you could save this
up and work for me from here but I just
wanted to show you this because it is
useful chat gbt is developing I believe
they're going to release a new tool at
the moment it's a student's kind of
playground phase so yeah it's just a lot
of testing at the moment
um and it's not kind of fully available
to the public but it will get better and
in time who knows this could be much
more comprehensive from the outset so I
hope this video was useful if it was
please hit the like button that tells me
I should continue making videos like
this and do consider subscribing to the
channel if you get over to my channel
you'll notice there's very different
playlists
um all about project management whether
it's project management methodology
processes or building out templates like
product plans or risk registers as an
example and there's also some other
playlists on different tools as well
that project managers commonly use that
you may want to learn more about
so with all that said I hope you have an
excellent day
