in today's world we are able to
communicate with our phone through
google assistant gadgets like alexa and
siri helping us with paying bills
weather updates and much more it's all
possible because of natural language
processing in artificial intelligence a
human can hardly talk in two to three
languages but a robot can talk in almost
all languages with natural language
processing we are able to translate text
from english to hindi chinese to tamil
and much more today we are communicating
with our smart tv through voice
recognition natural language processing
in the 21st century nlp or natural
language processing becomes the heart of
artificial intelligence in this video we
are going to learn what is natural
language processing in artificial
intelligence and its importance welcome
to ai english i am krishna tinia mandela
firstly let's start with what is nlp nlp
or natural language processing is a
process of mimicking and interpreting
our natural spoken conversations by
machines and robots before we start our
concept once watch this video hi i'm
nadine what is your name
hello nadine
my name is edgar it's a pleasure to meet
you
you look nice where are you from
thank you you look nice too i was born
in japan but i grew up in ionia i am is
the institute for media innovation in
ntu
what about you
oh
i also grew up in imi but i was born in
singapore here in ntu so why have i not
seen you before in this video two ai
robots talking to each other but robots
are not humans and they don't have brain
then how come these robots able to
understand language let's find out now
natural language processing is a subset
of artificial intelligence to understand
a language nlp uses machine learning
algorithms to detect the patterns of
voice recognition and grammar in
sentences as ai system has already
stored huge amount of language data in
their database ai robots or machines
starts recognizing the voice commands
and understand the meaning from their
natural language processing library now
in reply to the question machine
learning algorithms acts as a brain and
gives answers by detecting patterns in
the voice mood etc today with
advancement in computing memory and
super fast processing voice assistants
able to give quicker replay in seconds
so let's see some of our real life
natural language processing examples
number one in gmail our males are
classified into different categories
like primary social spam and promotions
this is possible due to a type in
natural language processing called text
classification it is also called as spam
filter number two in apps like flipkart
zomato amazon and google the customer
support initially we used to communicate
with a chart board with natural language
processing artificial intelligence if an
nlp bot unable to solve our problem it
connects to a customer care agent number
three whatever you type in google the
search results in google page displayed
happen with natural language processing
it is with text recognition number four
in our keyboard if you type how are the
next words suggest as you the automatic
prediction in your smartphone keyboard
works with artificial intelligence
natural language processing number six
in youtube videos automatic generated
subtitles works with natural language
processing speech recognition this
technique is also called as speech to
text number seven last but not the least
all language translators are the best
examples of natural language processing
but why natural language processing is
required as the amount of data on the
internet increasing day by day it is
important for individuals and companies
to understand the information in a
simple and faster way for example there
is a 5000 words comment in our youtube
channel or in a google play store game
review with natural language processing
algorithm it can detect the sentiment of
the review whether it's a positive
review or a negative review from last
few years why search in google increases
by 200 percent we need to thank natural
language processing in artificial
intelligence for making our search
results easier now coming to the future
of natural language processing in ai in
future customer problems can be solved
within minutes one of the best example
royal bank of scotland uses text
analytics of their customer feedback
form to understand their dissatisfaction
and implemented improvements in future
the documentation of a liar work can be
automized with natural language
processing and one more example
completely robots operated hotel in
china the henna hotel works with natural
language processing most of the hotels
brings robots and hide them as
receptionist in the future in the
healthcare industry a patient illness
can be detected using speech patterns
with nlp by 2026 it is expected that nlp
market would grow at 20 percent rate and
reach 35 billion dollar market if you
like the video please do like share and
subscribe to ai english for facts videos
please do subscribe to mbs fax english
