hi I'm Olivia and I am looking for a
Quantum job again and this time I have
invited Abby hello to help me find a job
uh last time when we were looking for
Quantum jobs Nick and I were mostly
looking for Quantum engineering Quantum
Hardware focused roles because that's
what our background and expertise is in
but we thought it might be helpful to
share some typical software engineering
type jobs with you this time among
others as well uh so why don't we get
started let's go all right so this is
the first job that Abby has selected for
us to review uh the title is software
engineer Quantum error correction this
is interesting already from like the
title first of all I very rarely see
software engineering job titles that
include the word Quantum to begin with
but now specifically here they're
mentioning Quantum error correction so
that's already like another like a
subset of even just Quantum software
engineering so that makes me I guess
curious to see what this post is going
to be about and it's kind of interesting
to see how error correction as a field
is progressing to the point where
they're hiring you know actual software
people to kind of join in with that kind
of area of research so let's see what
experience I would need a bachelor's
degree or equivalent practical
experience practical experience again
this is interesting because the Trap
that I see a lot of employers falling
into for software roles is they'll be
very specific onl like you must have a
bachelor's degree in computer science
which you know when you're in a already
quite a niche if just generally hiring
software developers with that kind of
background is sometimes hard you get a
lot of software people that are coming
from less traditional academic
backgrounds into software and then
especially in a field like Quantum which
is even more Niche you're not always
guaranteeing that the people applying to
your jobs will have the same kind of
cookie cutter degree background you also
need 5 years of experience with soft
Ware development in C++ and python those
are the pretty standard languages I
would say for the quantum engineering
Fields it particularly calls out data
structures and algorithms not surprising
that that's that's always telling to me
when I see that because that means that
I you're probably going to get the kind
of Infamous uh software engineering type
of interview where that means that like
this employer will probably probably be
asking you to like know how to do a bin
research or like Le code Type problems
leak code Type problems like you need to
be on it with those data structures and
those algorithms so yeah if you see the
word data structure as an algorithms in
a software engineering job post you got
to be kind of like doing those leak code
problems every day making sure that you
can kind of talk about that even if
practically you don't use them very much
in your day-to-day you kind of have to
prove you have that Baseline level of
knowledge 3 years of experience testing
maintaining launching software products
one year with design or ar architecture
and then experience with HPC which is
high performance Computing real-time
operating systems chronal driver
development concurrency code development
systems programming is that pretty
typical stuff yeah I would say this is
pretty typical for like a kind of mid to
senior level kind of software um kind of
job description and I think that you can
definitely tell that this is not an
entry level position also by looking at
the preferred qualifications it says it
prefers somebody with a higher level
technical degree a Masters or a PhD and
one year of experience in a technical
leadership role so those of both of
those say to me we're looking for a mid
to senior level software engineer and I
think maybe what's interesting to point
out too maybe people don't always know
this but there's a w wide range of bands
or levels that fall within mid to senior
level software engineering jobs and
usually when you're interviewing
figuring out what band or level to hire
you at is part of the interview process
so they might say we're looking to hire
somebody for this role that's in a range
of levels from like 3 to 5 or something
like that and they're fine with anybody
in that range but what you actually will
get hired at um is very important and so
you have to negotiate that as part of
your interview process I think you can
also tell a little bit from like the
salary range that I think they have
included that here they give you quite a
broad range in the salary so probably
where you fit on that Spectrum will
translate to your level of experience so
if a tech lead was applying for this job
they would probably be more eligible for
the top range of that salary if you're
not a tech lead if you have less
experience you'll probably be more
likely to get the kind of the lower end
of this range um but also good that
they're publishing their um their salary
ranges that is we love salary
transparency that's great so other
preferred qualifications um experience
developing accessible technology
ooh that's I've never seen that before
so I what I'm interpreting this is
anytime you're going to be doing some
kind of user-facing um software
development so particularly if you're
building websites or platforms that have
kind of the general public interacting
with them you kind of should be thinking
about accessibility so that's how um
easy it is for people to use your
product but um there's this idea of
Designing Technologies with an
accessibility mindset from the get-go
because even though you are kind of um
addressing like a potentially Niche area
of users the benefits that come actually
can affect a very wide range of users
the other preferred qualifications are
experience interfacing with hardware
fpga systems experience with automation
monitoring or release
management pretty typical stuff right
yeah so that's probably stuff like cicd
pipelines like logging um pushing out
software releases things like that yeah
and then the last one is knowledge of
quantum Computing Andor error correction
I like how that's put on like the
preferred I know that's kind of funny
because I feel like error correction at
least to me is one of those things where
it's so Technical and there's so much
literature that unless you're already
actively working in the field and
Publishing in the field it would be
pretty hard to jump into a role like
this I don't know if I'm qualified for
this role but uh I think this is a
perfectly good post I think that this
would be you know probably a great job
hopefully they can find somebody because
like you said it's pretty specific all
right next we have a Quantum client
delivery lead what does the title tell
us already I'm going to be working with
clients if I get this role and I'm some
type of
lead that's also kind of what I what I
get oh and we're doing something Quantum
related oh good what qualifications do I
need to have strong client delivery
engagement and relationship management
skills and experience okay that means
you need to have a proven track record
of making your clients like you three
years of experience in leading
successful delivery engagements project
management and client relationship
management basically what I gather from
this role is it's not entry level this I
would say is solidly mid um but they
need basically people who understand
what Quantum Computing is you can't come
in totally blind to the technology and
they need somebody who has good
interpersonal relationship skills
somebody who's going to be very
organized somebody who's going to be
able to work with clients but talk to
them about technical Concepts but maybe
not at um you know a super detailed
technical level like it says here
somebody who's more on the Enterprise or
seite level which means an executive
who's sort of further removed from being
an individual contributor and like
building the software or the technology
themselves but they still need to have a
really good grasp of where it's going
yeah it definitely seems like quite a
broad audience that this person would
have to be kind of of interacting with
this would be a great role for somebody
who's an excellent science Communicator
I cannot emphasize enough how organized
you have to be for these types of roles
yeah super organized you have to be
pretty fluent in product and project
management software you have to know how
to use them like the back of your hand
um you have to be very organized and
often this involves bothering people and
telling them to follow up with you and
give you the information or the content
that you asked for weeks ago that they
were supposed to have delivered by a
specific date so a lot of this is also
stakeholder management as well achieve a
high NPS promoter score of nine or 10 in
the client engagements that you lead now
that one that is helpful that is helpful
but I don't think I think if this has an
acronym and I hate acronyms you should
not use acronyms in a job posing at
least without defining them oh also they
say NPS which stands for net promoter
score promoter score so they're saying
NPS promoter score so net promoter score
promoter score like when people say ATM
machines right it doesn't make sense
grammar aside at least that's something
very tangible so it's basically just a
satisfaction rating that your clients
give you I think you know at the end of
the year in terms of How likely they are
to you know keep working with you and to
recommend you to other clients as well
cool sounds good uh next job okay we
have another software job quantum
software systems architect SL engineer
you're going to be typing out a computer
lot but it says roles and
responsibilities extensive experience
with software design for Hardware
control and effective at developing
close working relationships with
collaborators I feel like this is like
so
vague oh wait but they do break it down
into like minimum and preferred so these
I guess are just the this is also not a
role or responsibility so that bullet
point extensive experience with software
design is not a responsibility
this looks like a very like last minute
cut and paste job description but that's
okay so minimum qualifications typically
requires a minimum of 5 years of related
experience with a bachelor's degree or 3
years at a master's degree or a PhD with
no
experience okay again like pretty
flexible in terms of like if you have a
more advanced academic background
they'll be willing to look for less time
of like working experience but if the
highest level of academic education you
have as a bachelor's degree then you'll
be expected to demonstrate a longer
period of um relevant work experience
which I think is fair and I think maybe
something to point out because I didn't
know this when I was applying to jobs
straight out of my PhD the experience
that you have when you're doing your PhD
counts towards work experience I didn't
know that for some reason and when I was
graduating people were saying like you
know how many years of work experience
you have with python in my head I would
think zero even though I knew Somey
being a student right but I was
technically a student but that's not
right that's not what they're looking
for the correct answer is five or six or
you know however long you had been using
python at in graduate school and then it
says experience in Python software
development signal generators lasers
electrooptic modulators single Photon
counting modules and spatial light I
don't know what that has to do with
python software development this is the
kind of program that I did when I was in
graduate school is I used python to
control all of the room temperature
Electronics and boxes basically in the
lab and so I had to learn how to
interface and write like drivers and
different modules so that I could like
basically control all of the the control
Electronics from my laptop and I do view
that as like a very specific type of
programming actually because like that
is what I have the most experience in
but when it comes to stuff like data
structures and algorithms and leak code
I'm pretty useless because I pretty much
only know how to program
hardware and boes so I don't know
they're very different types of
programming okay so this is kind of
interesting to compare to like the first
one that we looked at which was
definitely earring more towards like a
software developer who can kind of
muddle their way through the physics
stuff whereas this kind of role is
someone that like know like having that
Hardware experience is crucial but if
you've like got that python software
skills like that's you know great too
the next one is also kind of interesting
desire and ability to work on system
level CAD modeling have you ever done
CAD modeling like a lot of like moving
pictures around on a
gooey um but I'm surprised to see it in
a job posting like this actually does it
have any relevance to building quantum
computers I don't know sure yeah it does
um but I guess I wouldn't think of it as
a software engineering role to me that's
more of like something that a hardware
engineer does I like how specifically
they put desire and ability to work on
system level CAD modeling I don't know
if that says something about how enjoy
desire to work on CAD
systems um so even if you're great at it
if you do not want be doing this every
single day you're not getting that job
okay fair enough preferred
qualifications background in CAD
modeling I feel like that would be maybe
a little bit more hard to find for a
software engineer but totally possible
and then the last one is software
experience for Quantum control it's
interesting that the the CAD stuff is
something that I think they realize that
maybe it's a hard skill to find plus
everything else so they're willing to
hire someone without significant
experience in that area but it would be
a plus if you did have experience there
and crucially it sounds like that is
something that you will have to do as
part of the job so you should be willing
to work on that and even if you don't
have experience with it you should be
willing to learn it MH next oo okay I
have no idea what the heck this is a
Quantum treasure y consultant this looks
fun just like from the name I would
apply to senior level role so you have
to have many years of doing Quantum
treasury consultancy
Abby skills required Quantum Financial
modeling develop and Implement Quantum
algorithms and model models to simulate
complex Financial scenarios including
cash flow forecasting risk assessment
portfolio optimization liquidity these
are all things for sure that quantum
computers could maybe do one day these
are I'm at least happy to see listing
very specific types of financial
applications that I know people are
working on in the field so they've done
their homework they understand that
Quantum Computing doesn't apply to
everything it could apply to these
specific things however it is you know
further down the the line in terms of
how soon this is going to be implemented
I think that Quantum Financial
algorithms definitely require better
Hardware in order to actually be
implemented so I think that this impl
them but you wouldn't get any useful
results right that's what we mean like I
certainly wouldn't put my 401k in this
Quantum Financial modeling system yet
and I think there would be needing to
see a little bit more proof of concept
here treasury strategy optimization I
don't even know what this means okay so
I'm assuming there is an area of finance
that is called Treasury and they're
looking like that's like seems to be
like a classical Financial Field and
they want to look for ways to apply
Quantum Computing to that area mhm but
it sounds like you're going to have some
help uh from some Finance people and
some data scientists yes that's good
apply Quantum optimization algorithms to
enhance cash management hedging
strategies Capital allocation and
investment decisions while considering
risk and regulatory requirements we
should just go down to fi and see if
someone from there could answer tell us
what this job is we would get
mansplained so hard anyways it says you
need to come up with novel Quantum
algorithms for Treasury and analytics
which sounds very difficult to me coming
up with any novel Quantum algorithms to
me is a very ambitious goal this is a
research role I think it's going to be
incredibly hard to find someone with
like the relevant experience in both
this specific area of Finance Plus plus
like the quantum research background to
be able to develop novel Quantum
algorithms no I agree because you pretty
much I don't want to say you know you
need a PhD to do this kind of work but I
feel like you might because learning how
to develop novel Quantum algorithms is
just so Technical and so hard that it
requires many years of education and
training so although it's interesting
that they didn't even specify but they
didn't specify degree they don't even
use the word research in this job
posting it's a little bit of a weird job
posting like I have no doubt that this
is a real job and it seems like the
people writing it do have
some good idea of what they would be
doing and what they want but they aren't
listing qualifications like typical job
postings do so that's a little weird I
don't think they have a realistic
understanding of the kind of people that
would be able to fill this kind of
position that's exactly what it is they
know what they want but they don't know
how to find those people and they don't
know probably the education and the
experi that those types of people would
have this is an internal posting is also
another possibility maybe they already
have somebody in mind internally for
this role and just legally this is a job
posting that they had to put in public
on the internet even though they know
who they're going to hire for this role
that's always a possibility when you see
job postings so that's another reason
why you know you might never hear back
from a company once you apply to them or
you get ghosted or whatever sometimes it
has nothing to do with you sometimes the
company just already knows who they want
to hire and they just had to post the
job for legal reasons all right shall we
move on yes we have
another Consulting related one I think
like summer associate is just code for
like Consulting summer internship in my
understanding of it so it even says here
this is an internship program um about
you work with other researchers to
document your findings and publish
scientific papers okay that's unusual
and that's cool to see because a lot of
these Finance or consultancy type roles
don't actually encourage publication
because a lot of their work has to be
kept proprietary and internal but I like
this because I want to know what these
people are doing and I never get to
really understand what's going on inside
these you know Consulting hubs because
they're pretty secretive usually about
their work but if it says that they're
looking for you to publish your findings
then that's pretty cool and it's
important for interns of course to build
up their resume in that way as well this
one actually feels more targeted to
people with that research background and
they're kind of showing that you can
still like pursue your research um kind
of academic career while doing this work
in industry and then I don't know what
this one means but contribute to
company's IP by pursuing necessary
protections of Ip so basically that was
that saying we'll let you publish some
things in scientific papers but also the
like the secret Source also the secret
Source we're going we're going to make
that a patent yeah that's what that
means but hey maybe you'll get some
patents on your resume you know play
right they're working in Industry you
know you need to be doing stuff that is
going to make the company money as well
as like the kind of open science like
they seem to be doing like a little bit
of both that's capitalism baby uh key
qualifications and skills no prior
familiarity with Finance or financial
use cases required okay that's cool
that's an internship so they're looking
to teach you about finance things they
really expect somebody to come in I
think with a more theoretical
understanding but not necessarily in
financial applications specifically so I
like that preference is given to
candidates with a strong publication
record okay I think this is pretty good
this is a good post this is a good
internship if I was working in these
areas which I'm not and if I was younger
which I'm not I would apply to this job
I think this is a really solid post I
like that they want you to publish I
like that they're you know looking to
hire somebody with a strong publication
record because this says to me that we
want to grow our company's
in a scientific field which I like
because that means you know you're
probably not only going to be publishing
you're going to be going to conferences
you're going to be presenting at
conferences and that's the you know uh
scientific Community vibe that I like
that they're opening it up quite broad
like they could see someone with a
Quantum information Theory background
having just as much value as someone who
comes from like a symmetric key
cryptography background which is like
quite different areas of research but
both could potentially
um have value here um whether you're
from like a classical um software
background or like a quantum theory
background it's a great post you know
sounds really
interesting so that was the last job
posting that we found that we thought
might be relevant what did we learn
today Abby the job hunting is hard job
hunting is really hard you got to know a
lot of python that's what I think you
got to know much want to ask for python
yes and another thing I don't want to go
on too long of ATT tangent on this but
another thing I will say is coming from
an academic background I think a lot of
people expect industry type jobs which
all of these were to be sort of a
fallback plan if you don't make it in
Academia and I think what you can really
tell from this video and from the
postings that we saw are that these are
very very competitive jobs these are
hard to get this is not a fallback plan
by any means this is something that you
have to work hard for and aspire to just
like any academic position yeah and I
think I'm just excited to see more and
more software related jobs coming about
I think even you know a few years ago
when I was first you know coming into
this field I don't think there were many
jobs at at all that were specifically
advertised for a software audience but
now we're starting to see actually
people that come from a traditional uh
software background have a a lot of um a
lot to offer and there are kind of more
specific coding and software and
infrastructure at ated roles that don't
necessarily always require a solid
Quantum background M that's good that
means the field is growing and it's
healthy and it's progressing along the
timeline that we would expect it to so
that's all good all right well I guess
that's it for now thank you for joining
us and if you see any job postings that
you're interested about you know let us
know in the
[Music]
comments
