sometimes people ask me why I'm now
doing science news it's so that you can
fully appreciate the drama of scientific
discovery in which one result
contradicts a previous one and the next
one finds a flaw in this other one I
think the entertainment value of science
is greatly
underappreciated and Quantum Computing
is without doubt one of the most
dramatic areas at the moment on the one
hand you have people claiming it's the
next in Industrial Revolution and it's
going to change the world and on the
other hand you have people saying it's
all hype quantum computers are
interesting but useless this new paper
supports the letter Camp let's have a
look quantum computers are devices that
exploit Quantum links known as
entanglement and know that's not what
Einstein meant by spooky action at a
distance entanglement doesn't exist in
conventional computers and because
quantum computers have these additional
ways to encode and handle information
they can perform some calculations much
faster the relevant part of the previous
sentence is that they can perform some
calculations much faster it isn't the
case for all calculations nevertheless
the calculations that quantum computers
can speed up cover several commercially
relevant cases such as quantum chemistry
that plays a role in material design and
drug development as well as Logistics
and finance this is why there are so
much hype around quantum computers and
that talk about a new Revolution on the
other hand there are a lot of practical
problems in making quantum computers
work I mean besides the problem that no
one understands quantum mechanics though
there's that the real issue is that
these Quantum links are incredibly
fragile depending on how you create them
they might last micros seconds to a few
seconds but that's about it and your
calculation needs to be done within that
time and I mean I do calculations for my
financial management within a few
microseconds but it's probably not a
good thing there are many approaches to
Quantum Computing that differ by how you
physically realize the quantum bits
cubits for short I've talked about this
in several previous episodes but all
these approaches have this problem in
common the quantum information is very
sensitive to disturbances which brings
in errors these errors can be avoided by
introducing redundancies but that
requires making the computers larger
which brings in more problems what this
means is that the need for error
correction moves useful quantum
computers further into the future and no
one knows how far that's unappealing for
investors and this is why in the past
year some physicists like for example
John presco have pushed the idea that
even noisy quantum computers can be good
for something if that was true it would
do a lot against the criticism that
Quantum Computing applications are far
away and might remain far away forever
last summer IBM said they'd done it
they'd done something useful with a
noisy quantum computer and the New York
Times celebrated this success the new
paper now puts the the IBM achievement
into doubt so H you see the drama in
last year's paper the IBM team explains
how they used a noisy Quantum processor
with 127 cubits called The Eagle
processor to calculate what's called
theorized time evolution of a 2d
transverse fi ising model the ising
model is a model of coupled Quantum
spins and the terized transverse field
and means it's a special version this
model is interesting if you find that
kind of model interesting to my best
knowledge it doesn't have any uses
however the type of calculation is
difficult to do on a conventional
computer which is what makes it an
interesting test the IBM group claimed
that their Quantum chip
outperformed any calculation that could
be done on a conventional computer and
that quote there is indeed Merit to
pursuing research towards deriving a
practical computational advantage from
noise limited Quantum circuits the
authors of the new paper now say that
IBM was somewhat over optimistic they
found a way to do the calculation on a
conventional computer and they managed
to do it faster and better than IBM
could on their noisy computer basically
they show that conventional computers
outperform the quantum computer also on
this task they write we can perform a
classical simulation that significantly
more accurate and precise than the
results obtained from the quantum
processor you can see this very nicely
in this figure where the dots with the
arrow bars are from the quantum computer
and the smooth line going through them
is from the new calculation so another
supposed Quantum achievement gun that's
happened a few times before that one
group claimed they'd done something
spectacular on a quantum computer just
that later another group did it on a
conventional computer the most prominent
example was probably Google's 2019 claim
that they had proved a Quantum Advantage
back then the scientists from Google
published a paper in nature claiming
they'd done a calculation on a 53 Cubit
quantum computer which would have taken
10,000 years on a conventional computer
the 10,000 years claim was swiftly
questioned by IBM and indeed it was
later done by Chinese group on a
conventional computer in only 5 minutes
then again maybe that just means that
10,000 years in Silicon Valley are worth
5 minutes in China this new result
matters because it's once again showing
that conventional computers are so
Advanced already that there are very
strong competition for quantum computers
and that'll probably remain so for quite
some time to come this is really bad
news for anyone who has invested into
Quantum Computing did you know I have a
Quantum mechanic course on brilliant.org
it's a beginner's course that you can
take without any background knowledge
it'll introduce you to topics such as
interference superpositions and
entanglement the uncertainty principle
and balance theorem and afterwards you
can continue learning more about your
favorite topics in science computer
science or maths all courses on
brilliant come with interactive
visualizations and follow-up questions
it's really an easy and fun way to learn
something new if you want to try write
out for free use our link brilliant.org
Saina first 30 days are free and the
first 200 of you to use this link will
get 20% off the annual premium
subscription thanks for watching see you
tomorrow
