hey everyone my name is ishaan and i
welcome you all to this session in this
session we will be talking about agile
project management and several other
things related to it before we begin
let's have a look at all the topics we
will be covering today first we will see
the basics of agile project management
then we will check the relevance and
principles of agile project management
we will then see necessary steps to
implement agile methodology along with
that we shall also see different
frameworks involved in the process and
finally we shall see some companies that
use agile project management so without
any further ado let's get started with
what is agile project management agile
project management as the name suggests
is a flexible approach to building a
project in agile project management the
project is broken down into several
stages of sprints agile does not work on
the principle of delivering the final
product at the end of the project it
works on delivering sections of a
project or mini projects the process of
project management in the case of agile
is agile based so there won't be any
central control of project manager as it
was there in the traditional way of
working before we move forward let's
have a look at the agile development
cycle agile methodologies consist of
several small cycles or sprints at the
end of each stage we get a mini project
there's a product backlog that explains
new features changes in the existing
features and several other improvements
in the project then we have a sprint
backlog which has a list of tasks that
are to be completed during each sprint
the sprint consists of planning
designing execution testing and
deployment stages and at the end of each
sprint a mini project is delivered with
every sprint new features are added to
the product which plays a significant
role in the overall project growth after
all the sprints and early validation in
the development the final deliverable
has a fewer chances of failure let's now
have a look at some reasons why
industries have started moving towards
agile project management the first
reason is high product quality when we
talk about higher product quality we
refer to the build of the product as per
stakeholders demands testing is
performed at short intervals of time
wherever needed to ensure high quality
of the product then another reason is
customer satisfaction whatever is done
in the project is known by the customer
the deliveries don't take longer
durations as they used to take in the
case of traditional ways the changes may
be provided by the customer in the
execution phase of the project third
reason is reduced risk since the project
is divided into sprints so if the risk
affects one sprint it doesn't mean whole
of the project will be at risk the
process of risk analysis continues to
take place with all the other processes
another significant reason for agile
project management is better and faster
return on investment the project is now
developed in several sprints and each
print has its own version therefore the
project becomes market ready after a few
sprints only since the projects can now
be released with ease and in shorter
duration this helps the organization to
stay ahead in competition with respect
to other organizations which have still
not moved to agile methodology now we
shall check the principles of agile
project management there are 10
principles for successful agile project
management the first principle is the
satisfaction of the customer by
delivering the project fast and with
least number of errors the next
principle refers to decreasing the
amount of time between the phase of
planning and delivery the third
principle states that the team of
managers and developers work together
and increase the productivity of their
work the next principle states that the
changes requested by the stakeholders
can be taken into consideration and
worked upon during the development phase
as well the fifth principle pays
attention to the factor of coordination
among the team members then the sixth
principle refers to the process of
monitoring and tracking the progress of
the project at the end of each sprint
and making amendments wherever needed
moving on the next principle states that
there must be a feeling of trust and
support towards the team to complete the
project's objectives the next principle
emphasizes on face-to-face conversations
with the development team the
face-to-face conversation helps in both
solving problems and easy knowledge
sharing
then the 9 principle emphasizes on
finding solutions and maximizing the
amount of work done with simplicity this
ensures timely completion of tasks by
all the team members the last principle
states that scrum tools like monday.com
or zoho sprints must be used to simplify
the complicated codes which further
helps in saving time we shall now see
the steps in agile project management
the goal of agile methodology is to
produce shorter development life cycles
and more frequent product releases than
traditional waterfall project management
so we will now check six steps in agile
project methodology the first step in
the process is project planning project
planning includes feasibility study
development of scope breaking the
project into executable tasks or sprints
and then estimating the amount of time
needed to complete those sprints the
second step is the step of roadmap
creation a roadmap is a plan of action
that shows how a project shall evolve
over time a list of all the features
that the final product should have is
created and the steps to achieve those
features are taken the next important
step is release planning since we are
doing the project keeping in mind the
agile project methodology the project
will complete in sprints that means
there will be the release of features at
the end of each cycle and unlike the
traditional waterfall model the
development cycles will be smaller the
fourth step in agile project management
is sprint planning the sprints are made
keeping in mind what all is to be
accomplished in that particular step at
the beginning of each sprint the goal of
that sprint is decided and steps to
achieve that goal are taken the next
step in the process emphasizes on daily
meetings there are short meetings every
day to discuss if the team was able to
finish the task for each sprint and
check if there are any amendments that
are required each team member talks
about what they achieved in the last
print and what are they going to work on
in the next print the last step is the
step of sprint review and retrospective
there are two meetings after each sprint
first meeting is for the sprint review
this meeting is with the stakeholders to
show them the finished product
this helps both sides to build a
relationship and discuss if there are
any issues in the end product the second
meeting is for having a sprint
retrospective this meeting involves the
stakeholders to discuss what went well
and what went wrong during the sprint
sprint retrospective takes place after
the sprint review and before the next
print planning now when we know the
steps needed for agile project
methodology we must understand some
agile project management frameworks
there are several frameworks available
today here we will be discussing some of
the most popular frameworks the first
framework we will discuss is the kanban
framework kanban framework is a
well-known framework for implementing
agile software development in the case
of kanban framework work items are
represented on the kanman board which
helps all the team members to see the
state of every piece of work at any time
kanban board not only helps in
visualizing the work but also optimizing
the workflow among the team the next
framework we will discuss today is the
scrum framework scrum framework is a
popular framework for managing complex
knowledge work like in the field of
research and advanced technologies scrum
is a simple framework that helps team
work together and learn through their
experiences gained while working on a
problem the third framework we will see
today is the hybrid framework the hybrid
framework is a combination of agile
methodology and non-agile methodology in
the case of a hybrid framework planning
is done using the traditional way of
project management while the execution
and delivery is done using the agile
methodology since the hybrid is a
combination of the two it handles the
requirement changes and delivers the
product in different stages the fourth
and the last framework we will see is
the lean framework the lean framework
works on the principle of providing
maximum customer value and creating zero
waste it focuses on optimizing the flow
of products all through the value stream
this helps in eliminating waste all
through the process and create processes
that requires less human efforts this
also simplifies the process of
information management and makes it more
accurate finally let's have a look at
some companies that have opted for agile
project management today around 22
percent of the organizations worldwide
have all their teams working on the
principle of agile project methodology
let's have a look at some of the most
prominent companies in the world that
use agile project management in the list
we have ibm cisco atnt microsoft philips
and samsung and with this we have come
to the end of this session i hope you
guys found it informative and helpful
thanks for watching and stay tuned for
more from simplyla
hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learn youtube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos turn it up and get certified
click here
