when public or private entities in a
city or region that manage critical
infrastructures for example hospitals
electrical plants or public
transportation use the internet to send
important information between their
headquarters and operation sites how can
they guarantee that they are not being
hacked or that nobody is trying to steal
the information that is transmitted in
most cases today we send information
through the internet where the security
of the net relies on different methods
one of them called public key
cryptography
in this method two keys are generated
a public key that is sent to one party
and a private key that remains with the
other party
the message is encrypted using the
public key and opened with the private
key the security of this method relies
on that the private key is secret and
only the party receiving the message has
access to it
the public and private keys are created
using different mathematical algorithms
the most famous is based on the
factorization of a large number into
prime numbers and it is known as rsa
it is quick to multiply two very large
numbers
but it takes a lot more time to
factorize a large number into prime
factors
[Music]
to hack rsa and obtain the private key
from the public key we would need to be
able to factorize a very large number
with more than 600 digits
no algorithm or machine is known today
that is able to do such a thing
it would take more than a million years
of computation time to solve
what happens if there was already a
secret algorithm that could break codes
really fast and no one knew
just like the rosetta stone those who
knew how to use it got the information
when quantum computers surpassed the
computational power of classical
computers they will be able to do
wonderful and useful things for us but
they will also be able to break codes
extremely fast 100 million times faster
than current computers
that is fast
today hackers could copy the encryption
key and the encrypted messages that are
sent over the internet without being
noticed
they could store the information and
decode the message when such algorithms
or quantum computers are available
the information that needs to be kept
secret for several years should be
protected now
quantum key distribution is an applied
encryption method based also on the laws
of quantum physics which uses quantum
random number generators to create a
completely secure key that is used only
once between two parties to share
information
the key is created by encoding its
random bits into photons and transmitted
via current telecom fiber optics
networks or even through free space when
the random key is sent through the
internet a hacker can intercept it but
when the hacker tries to retrieve the
information encoded into the photons he
or she will irreversibly change their
properties because quantum states cannot
be cloned or copied
measuring the photons that compose the
key could change the encoded information
and this would alert the parties that
someone has intercepted the call and the
key has been compromised so the key is
discarded and a new one is generated
having this random key and adding it bit
by bit your string of data is proven to
be an ultra secure method when
transmitting sensitive data between two
locations such as banks hospitals or
government buildings and providing
long-term protection of our data even to
quantum computers
you
