hello everyone we have an exciting topic
for today and that is data scientist
versus data analyst
currently all of us are living in an
information driven world and
organizations rely on data for various
decision makings this in turn provides a
lot of job opportunities for candidates
who can play with data out of the many
job roles in the field of data science
the two popular ones are that of a data
scientist and a data analyst
haven't we all wondered at some point as
to what the exact difference is between
these two job roles oh wait are they the
same
well they in various ways and you will
see how in this video
we will start off by looking at the job
descriptions of both the data scientist
and the data analyst then we will look
at their responsibilities and skill set
we will also have a look at their salary
structure and the various companies
hiring for these professionals so
without further ado let's get started
let's have a look at the job description
now
a data scientist is a professional who
uses different statistical methods data
analysis techniques and machine learning
in order to understand and analyze data
in order to arrive at business
conclusions
they proactively fetch information from
a plethora of sources and analyze it for
better understanding about how the
business performs and they also build ai
tools that automate certain processes
within the company
they derive meaning out of messy and
unstructured data a data scientist is
usually a senior most member in the team
moving to the description of data
analyst a data analyst is responsible to
collect process and perform analysis on
large data sets they deal with data
handling data modeling and reporting
they are sometimes the entry level
members into the data analytics team
they bring technical expertise to ensure
the quality and accuracy of the data
then process design and present it in
ways to help people businesses and
organizations make better decisions
after a few years of experience data
analysts can move into the roles of a
data engineer and a data scientist
now that we have understood the job
descriptions let's go ahead and
understand the various roles and
responsibilities of a data scientist and
a data analyst
firstly data scientists are responsible
for performing cleaning processing and
manipulation of data using several data
analytics tools
they also perform ad hoc data mining and
collect large sets of structured and
unstructured data from a number of
sources
secondly data scientists interpret the
data using various statistical methods
they design and evaluate advanced
statistical models to work on big data
thirdly data scientists regularly build
predictive models and machine learning
algorithms to work on vast volumes of
data
lastly data scientists use visualization
packages and tools to create reports and
dashboards for relevant stakeholders
they also work with data analysts and
data engineers to formulate the analysis
results
let's now have a look at the various
responsibilities of a data analyst
the first responsibility of a data
analyst is to recognize and understand
the company's goal this in turn helps in
streamlining the whole analysis process
they are required to assess the
available resources comprehend the
business problem and gather the right
set of data
this step is done by collaborating with
different team members such as data
scientists business analysts and
programmers
they gather data from various databases
and warehouses through querying they
write complex sql queries and scripts to
gather and extract information
data analysts also filter and clean data
to get the required information they are
responsible for data mining as well
data is mined from various sources and
then organized in order to obtain new
information from it
data and lists identify and analyze
trends in complex data sets using
various statistical tools
a data analyst is also responsible for
creating summary reports for the
leadership team so that they can make
timely decisions
data analysts use multiple data
visualization tools for achieving this
in order to achieve all the above
mentioned responsibilities data
scientists and data analysts are
required to possess a rich skill set
let's now have a look at few of the most
important skills required to back the
position of a data scientist
the basic requirement to become a data
scientist is that you must have a
bachelor's degree in computer science or
information technology but a master's
degree in the field of data science will
be a lot more beneficial
you also need to have a good experience
in the analytics domain as i mentioned
before this role is a senior role and to
get here the right amount of experience
is a must
let's have a look at the tools you need
to know
knowledge of microsoft excel is good it
is one of the most basic requirements
speaking of programming languages you
should be good at python c plus plus and
java
knowledge of perl is a brawny point
you should also be proficient in sql
as we discussed earlier data scientists
work on building machine learning
algorithms hence you need to have a good
knowledge of machine learning and deep
learning
familiarity with apache spark apache
hive and apache pig is necessary along
with the knowledge of hadoop
data visualization and bi skills are
necessary for creating reports and
dashboards you should also be able to
communicate and present information and
ideas clearly
so these are the skills required to
become a data scientist
if you want to explore the role of a
data analyst then you should hold a
degree in any relevant field beat
engineering in computer science
information technology or electrical
engineering
you can also be a graduate in statistics
or economics
moving on to the tools once again you
should be familiar with microsoft excel
the next important skill is that you
should have good hands-on experience
with programming languages such as
python r and javascript this would help
you write programs to solve complex
problems
you should also have a good knowledge of
statistical and data analytics tools
such as sas minor and ssas
you must be able to write various sql
queries and procedures
in addition to these you must have a
strong understanding of statistics and
machine learning algorithms these
include concepts such as hypothesis
testing probability distributions and
various classification and clustering
techniques
most importantly a data analyst should
be able to create visually appealing
reports with the help of charts and
graphs using several data visualization
tools such as power bi and tableau
they must possess good presentation
skills as well in order to convey their
ideas to the clients and stakeholders in
a better way
so these are the skills that are
required to become a data analyst
let's now have a look at the annual
salary range of a data scientist and a
data analyst both in the u.s and in
india
in the united states a data scientist
can earn a minimum salary of sixty one
thousand dollars to a maximum of one
hundred thirty six thousand dollars per
year
meanwhile in india a data scientist can
earn a minimum salary of three lakh
forty seven thousand rupees to a maximum
of two million rupees per annum
a data analyst in the united states can
earn a minimum salary of forty three
thousand dollars to a maximum of eighty
five thousand dollars per year
in india you can earn anywhere between 1
lakh 98 000 rupees to 9 lakh 24 000
rupees per annum
let's now take a look at the various
companies hiring data scientists and
data analysts
here we have amazon the internet and
search engine giant google deloitte the
american multinational technology
company microsoft then we have apple and
the american social media web and mobile
application company pinterest hiring
data scientists
from the many companies hiring data
analysts here we once again have amazon
then we have the popular retail company
walmart robertoff and atnt next we have
social media firms facebook and twitter
as you might have heard of the term data
never sleeps well it surely doesn't and
not only that but it also brings in a
number of job opportunities with it the
job group in this domain is limitless
and data will only continue to grow
let's have a look at few of the stats
now
well ibm had predicted that by this year
that is 2020 the number of job listings
in the field of data science and
analytics will increase by 3 lakh 64
thousand
and we have the u.s bureau of labor
statistics predicting that there will be
a rise in the data science needs and
this in turn will create 11.5 million
job openings by 2026 now that's a big
number isn't it
and if you are aspiring to become a data
scientist then you are on the right path
as there is a huge demand for this role
according to deloitte the united states
is projected to face a shortfall of 2
lakh 50 000 data scientists by 2024
that's barely just in four more years
all these stats prove that the job
demand in the field of data science and
data analytics is here to stay
professionals belonging to this domain
are in high demand all across the globe
now let's have a look at the google
search trends for data scientists and
data analysts
as you see the blue color depicts data
scientists and the red data analysts
both the search trends go hand in hand
and over time the search term data
analyst is higher but the search term of
that of a data scientist is experiencing
a steady rise
let's have a look at the worldwide
youtube search trend as well
as you can see on your screens it looks
like people are more keen on exploring
the job role of a data scientist and
looks like they want to learn more about
the job role of a data scientist
compared to that of a data analyst
nevertheless the search term data
analyst is also right there in the
competition
so that brings us to the end of this
video i hope you can now clearly
differentiate between the job roles of a
data scientist and that of a data
analyst depending on your interest and
skills you can choose between either of
these roles
hope you found this video informative
and helpful if you enjoyed watching this
video please like and share it and don't
forget to subscribe to the simply learn
channel thank you for watching and stay
tuned for more from simply learn
hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learn youtube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos turn it up and get certified
click here
