[Music]
AI or artificial intelligence allows
businesses to improve their productivity
improve the quality and in general makes
user interfaces more pleasant for people
to use my name is parola Christensen I'm
a professor of interactive systems
engineering and I lead the intelligent
interactive systems group in the
department of engineering at the
University of Cambridge I have worked in
human computer interaction for about 20
years and also developed several
professional products in the area this
course is about teaching principal
techniques for Designing human AI system
it uses principles and techniques from
design engineering human computer
interaction and artificial intelligence
to teach professionals how to come up
with a comprehensive design document
that covers all relevant aspects of the
design of a human AI system a big
passion of mine is to ensure that this
course has actionable outcomes for
professionals every module in this
course will have a practical exercise
that teachers professionals a particular
design technique or method further every
module in this course will gradually
lead to the completion of a
comprehensive human AI design document
that covers all relevant aspects of a
human AI design so this course has very
Broad applicability and does not require
deep technical expertise we will
demonstrate the versatility of AI
through many different domains including
manufacturing product design but also
indices such as the medical domain
insurance and banking if you have an
interest in AI this is the course for
you
thank you
