Click the Bell Icon to get the Latest Videos from Ekeeda
all to this video with this video we are
going to start with the new subject the
subject is titled digital image
processing as of now we are all familiar
with the wide application areas of
digital image processing here the first
chapter is focused on 2 introduction of
digital image processing and the very
first topic that we are going to deal
with this video that is what is a
digital image processing as digital
image processing the title is having
three terms digital image and processing
in this video we are going to see first
of all what exactly the image mean the
types of image we are going to see as
analog image and digital image so the
first two terms a digital image we will
be getting familiarized with and further
we shall see digital image processing
now we know the various applications of
digital image processing why digital
image processing has been so popular so
the advantages offered by digital image
processing we will be seeing in this
particular video further whatever the
other areas related to digital image
processing are that is image analysis
sometimes called as the image
understanding along with the computer
vision we will be discussing so we shall
be deciding the scope of digital image
processing the exact starting and ending
of digital image processing is to be
addressed along with a useful paradigm
into the world of images also we shall
see the various course contains that we
are going to follow into this entire
subject digital image processing so let
us start with the first topic that is
what is digital image processing
so let us begin with the topic the topic
is titled what is a digital image
processing here those viewers who are
very beginners with the subject digital
image processing I must make you
familiar that we should first of all how
the image that generally be obtained
with the help of camera in our subject
we call this process as image
acquisition and the camera is actually
the image sensor with which a picture
generally what we talk is our image so
that image should be a digital image
that image contains information so the
extracting information from the digital
image and processing it further for the
specific application we can say it is
the extent of digital image processing
so this is a try to show you a prototype
of what exactly digital image processing
is his the title is digital image
processing moving further into the topic
we first of all take a simple picture
here this picture contains a cartoon
character moogly here a dancing girl a
call for elephant black bear black
panther we have small hurts here the
forestry the river a lot of things along
with the fruits are there into this
image so lot of storytelling things can
be done with the help of this particular
picture what we call image also hence
anonymous person has said that one
picture is worth more than 10,000 words
here so with this understanding we begin
with the topic what is digital image
processing so let us first of all see
what is the motivation behind the
development and the popularity of
digital image processing it is mainly
because of the two application areas or
the two causes we can say that are
listed here so here we can say that the
motivation behind digital image
processing is due to two principal
application areas the first one is
improvement of pictorial information for
human interpretation and the second one
is
thing of image data for storage
transmission and representation of
autonomous machine perception so here
these two points are very much important
whatever the information we get from a
certain image that is address into the
first point we always want more
information to be obtained so from the
image we want the pictorial information
to be imprudent for our interpretation
human interpretation we can say and when
the task of storage of that particular
information to reproduce it later on or
to transmit that information from one
place to another place and
representation onto the displays of the
modern computers or the modern machines
we can say the second point is said that
processing of email data for storage
transmission and representation of
autonomous machine perception so these
are the two causes because of which the
high development into the digital image
processing has taken up further we shall
see in the three terms for the subject
that is digital image processing and
here out of these three terms we first
of all begin with the middle term that
is what exactly the image is then we
shall see what exactly the digital image
is and then lastly we can see the
digital image processing so very first
of all the question is what is image
here so regarding the image we can say
that it is the projection of 3d scene
into the 2d plane whatever we see with
our bare eyes that is actually a
three-dimensional view that we can model
with the help of three axis X Y Z that
we have to do the representation onto a
2d plane or a plane of paper we can say
so here the three axis XYZ the 3d scene
we have to model in terms of only the
two axis that exactly means the image so
here the example with this with the help
of this picture we can see so this is a
tree into the three-dimensional view or
three-dimensional scene we can see that
we have captured an image
into the two-dimensional plane here so
this is the general interpretation of
what exactly the image is now talking
further we can have a simple model here
as the natural source of capturing image
is our eye so here we can have into the
scenario the two objects into this
diagram you can see that the two objects
are of same dimensions but they are
located apart from each other so the
first object is near to the eye the
second object is far from the eye so
whatever the image that generally we say
is formed onto the retina that will be a
2-dimensional image for our
interpretation and here though the two
objects are of same and I mentions the
object that is near to I that is having
the higher dimensions into the image and
that is far away from the eye that is
having the smaller dimensions into the
two-dimensional view here so the 3d
scene that we are going to model into
the 2d plane that exactly is the image
here further we can say that
mathematically talking we can have the
definition a two-dimensional function f
of X y where x and y are the spatial
coordinates and F at any pair of
coordinates of X Y is called intensity
or a gray level of the image at that
point so here we can take the two axis x
and y so x and y will give the spatial
coordinates the location of the elements
of this particular image so defining the
exact values of x and y at that
particular location there is third
parameter that is yep we shall give us
the intensity of the gray level of the
image at that particular point so
depending on the XY and F values we can
have the classification of image into
the two types that is analog image and
what is our important one that is
digital image so let us first of all
talk about what exactly the analog image
is then later on we shall see
digital image so for analog image first
of all the accepted definition for
simply the image is a two-dimensional
function f of X Y where x and y are the
spatial coordinates and F at any pair of
coordinates XY is called the intensity
or gray level of the image at that
particular point so the additional
things for the image to be analog image
is that when these the de presentations
has the continuous range of values for f
x and y representing the position by X Y
and the intensity by the parameter F so
that time we can say that the image is
analog image the example of analogue
image can be given as the image produce
onto the screen of CRT monitor the
storage requirement for such analog
image is having the high memory further
we can talk about the digital image
which is of more concern to this
particular subject digital image
processing so again we have the accepted
definition of image into the
mathematical form it is a function f of
X Y X Y being the spatial coordinates
and F is the intensity or the gray level
of the image so when these three
parameters are discrete into the nature
all X Y and F in other words we can say
are all the finite quantities that time
we can say that the image is a digital
image so just now we have seen the two
types of images basically that is analog
image and that are digital image so
generally in our world we have the
analog everything but for the storage
purpose for the transmission purpose we
convert it to the digital domain with
the help of digital computers so how to
obtain a digital image from the analog
image so for that purpose this simple
procedure is to be obtained from the
analog image we have to do the sampling
the sampling will have the
discretization in terms of x and y after
sampling we have quantization which will
have the discretization onto the f
parameter
and after sampling and quantization we
obtain the form of image to be the
digital image so this is exactly the
digital image is so more information
regarding digital image we can say that
it contains finite number of elements as
all the three parameters X Y and F are
all discretized here so these number of
elements given with the discrete values
of x and y we can say each is having a
particular location and a certain value
of F here further such elements we can
call the picture elements also called as
image elements pills or pixels pixel is
the most widely term that is used for
representation of such elements into the
digital image so what are the advantages
of having such a digital image the
advantage is that past processing as the
memory requirement is less as compared
to the analog image it is cost effective
it has effective storage effective
transmission from one place to another
along with the scope for versatile image
manipulation image manipulations we can
do with the digital image so what are
the disadvantages the disadvantages is
that high memory is required if you want
the good quality of images and hence
requires the past processors here
further if you like to compare the
analog image and the digital image here
we have a sample picture here the first
image is having a very precise
curvatures the edges we can see hence
the storage of this particular image
requires higher memory this image can be
said to be the analog here all the X Y
and F value are continuous here whereas
into this second part that is said to be
the digital one the things of X Y and F
are discretized here they are not the
continuous range of values for X Y and
yep that is the basic difference between
the analog and the digital image now
further we shall see
exactly the digital image processing is
up till now we have seen what exactly
the digital image mean so we shall see
the processing so into a single line we
can say that the analysis and
manipulation of the digitized image
especially in order to improve its
quality is said to be the digital image
processing in other words we can say
that processing of digital images my
main swap digital computer for specific
applications is actually the digital
digital image processing here now what
are the advantages offered by the
digital image processing the advantages
offered are as we know the human beings
all of us are limited to the visual band
of electromagnetic spectrum but as we
talk about the storage transmission with
the help of machines exactly we can see
or the digital computers so the imaging
machines cover almost the entire
spectrum ranging from gamma used to the
radius as we are confined to only the
visual band the machines can cover the
entire electromagnetic spectrum so
further those operating onto the images
generated by sources that humans are not
capable to since we can have into the
digital image processing so these
include ultrasound electron microscopy
and computer generated image hence I can
conclude that the advantage of using
digital image processing is to have more
information that only the human beings
directly are not related to
so after advantages of digital image
processing let us address what is the
exact scoop on digital image processing
the very first point we can say here
that there is no general agreement where
the image processing exactly stops and
the other related areas such as the
image analysis the computer vision start
here along with this the distinction
some time for digital image processing
is made that it is defined as a
discipline in which of both the input
and output of the process are the images
here
but this definition is sometimes
limiting and somewhat artificial
boundary for that purpose we have this
simple example here if the if the task
of computing the average intensity of an
image which is exactly a single number
so according to this definition would
not be considered as image processing
operation but we know that it is a task
that is associated into the digital
image processing only so there is no
general agreement and no general
definition where we can exactly say the
scope of digital image processing is
defined here so further we can say that
there are the fields like computer
vision which use the computers to
emulate the human region including the
learning and being made able to make the
inferences and take the actions based on
to the visual inputs here thus a branch
of artificial intelligence AI we can
abbreviate whose objective is to emulate
the human intelligence is here it is the
computer region and hence the area of
image analysis along with these
understandings we can say image
understanding for the image analysis
also it is in between the image
processing and computer vision so as the
digital image processing the start and
end lines are not clear-cut we have a
paradigm which is useful in the world of
images so useful paradigm in the world
of images we can see that consideration
of the three types of computerised
processes we can say low level processes
mid level processes and finally the high
level processes talking about the first
process that is the low level process we
can say that this involves primitive
operations such as image pre-processing
to reduce the noise to have the contrast
enhancement and to have image sharpening
so further this low level process is
actually characterized by the fact that
both the inputs and outputs are the
images so this we can say is exactly the
low level process
further talking about the mid-level
process we can say that it involved the
tasks such as image segmentation that we
are going to see into the details into
the next chapters definitely the
description of those objects to reduce
them to a form suitable for computer
processing and classification of
individual objects so the mid-level
process is characterized by the fact
that its inputs are generally the images
but the outputs are actually the
attributes extracted from these images
the attributes are in the form of a J's
contours and the identity of the
individual objects here finally the last
one that is the third that is high level
process according to this useful
paradigm it involves making sense of the
in symbol of the recognized objects as
in the image analysis and at the far end
performing the functions normally
associated with the pigeon hence by the
title useful paradeen in the world of
images we can address right from the
digital image processing to image
analysis and finally the computer region
so in this course into the digital image
processing we are going to address first
of all the first chapter introduction to
digital image processing the every
detail of digital image and processing
along with the application fundamental
steps the components that we are going
to see into this first topic that is the
introduction to digital image processing
this particular chapter will followed by
the second chapter that is digital image
fundamentals after that we have the
different image transforms which will be
having the mathematical interpretation
associated with this chapter with the
subject digital image processing next to
that we have the image enhancement the
improvement of information in the
spatial domain also the image
enhancement into the frequency domain we
have image restoration here the image
enhancement into the spatial and
frequency domain and image restoration
all are having the same note
the different procedures different types
to work on to the improvement of
material information after image
restoration we have the color image
processing right from the first chapter
to this particular chapter we have the
binary images and the grayscale images
address for such operations and here we
start with exactly the color image
processing it will be followed by the
very popular and the potential tools
that is wavelets and multi-resolution
processing here the resolution is at
multiple level and it is having a very
potential tool into the applications of
the digital image processing cordell we
have the image compression where we are
going to minimize the memory requirement
to store and to transmit the image from
one place to another place along with
some morphological image processing
after image compression and image
segmentation we have further we have
representation and a description of
image and finally we have the object
recognition so starting with
introduction to exactly the digital
image and further digital image
processing we end up onto the object
recognition so the objects into the
digital image are going to be recognized
how what are the ways to recognize them
that we will definitely see so these are
actually the chapters that we are going
to follow into the entire subject along
with the theoretical understandings and
certain these Linnaeus problems to
practice on we have the MATLAB code e to
give you the exact demonstration of the
image enhancement image restoration
various processing of the images the
image transform we shall be working with
along with these other topics so this is
the course content for the subject
digital image processing
now the summary of this particular
review we can make we have seen what is
image what is digital image which is no
more concern to us further what is
digital image processing I hope you are
now understood well further advantages
of digital image processing we have seen
the scope of digital image processing
and this hope we have address
with a useful parody into the world of
images finally we have seen just now the
course contents here so this was the
summary into the next lecture we are
going to address the new topic from the
chapter number one the topic name is
origins of digital image processing so
for getting such more copies more
information onto the subject
digital image processing you can
subscribe to equal a channel thank you
you
