[Music]
welcome to the lecture ten and the final
lecture in the our module of the course
data science for engineers in the
previous lectures we have seen what are
the basic data types that are supported
by our how to write scripts how to write
functions and how to do control
structures how to do programming and so
on in this lecture we are going to show
you how to generate some basic graphic
such as scatter plot line plot and bar
plot using Earth and will also give a
brief idea on why there is a need for
more sophisticated graphics and how R
does it first we will consider scatter
plot scatter plot is one of the most
widely used Lots where we have some
independent variable and dependent
variable when you want to see how a
dependent variable is dependent on the
independent variable you can use scatter
plot generating the scatter plot in R is
quite simple the first command here
shows it is creating a vector which is
having the elements from 1 to 10 and the
next command here takes this X and
calculates the element wise square of
the X and then assign it to value y when
you plot y it will generate this plot
here since we haven't specified what is
X which is independent variable R
generates its own independent variable
as the index since this vector contains
10 elements it will create the index
based on the number of elements in the
vector and then the by values which are
the squares of elements 1 to 10 that are
1 4 9 and so on are shown in the y axis
and 10 square is hundred
final value here on the y axis as 100
let us illustrate the scatterplot using
some inbuilt data set that is available
in I so we are talking about a data set
by name empty cars so you can access
this data set by just typing empty cars
this data set is a data frame which
contains 32 observations on 11 variables
the variables are listed here such as
number of cylinders which is represented
by variable c YN + MPG what is the -
that this cars gives that is miles per
US gallon and weight WD which is weight
of the car and so on now let us try to
plot a scatter plot between weight and
mpg of this data frame to do that what
we need to use is plot command this is
your independent variable car weight
this is your dependent variable miles
per gallon and this main helps in naming
the title of the graph X lab to give a
label for x-axis y lab is used to give a
label for y axis and this PCH
corresponds to different shapes for
points and speciation is called 19
corresponds to thee the shape that is
shown in this screen you can use
different PCH values to obtain different
shapes for the points in a scatter plot
next we move the line plot we can take
same example what we have seen earlier
if the same plot command can be used
what you need to do to generate a line
plot is to specify an extra argument
type which is yelling so type is equal
to L generates a line instead of the
scatter plot next we move on to the bar
plot the syntax to generate bar plot and
R is as follows bar not
of H these are the heights which can be
a vector and Matt assists to keep it
simple we'll deal with only letters and
names that argument what this argument
does is it will print the names under
the each attribute in the H X lab and my
lab and main has the same meanings as
what we have seen for the scatterplot
and color gives us an option to give
color to the bar plot this is the R code
that can be used to generate them but
not I want to define H heights of the
bar codes as a vector which is having
the values 712 28 3 and 41 and I want to
create another vector which is a
character variable which is having the
values March April May June and July and
now I am trying to create a bath lot
with HS heights and name start arguments
SEM X lab as month while I best Avenue
and the color of the bar notes I want is
blue and the title is revenue chart and
the border is red so when you execute
these commands this is how the bar plot
looks these are the heights of the bar
charts this is the 3 ok and then in the
names that are variable we have March
April May June and July which is printed
at the bottom of each height and the
x-axis is month y-axis is revenue and
the title is lemon nature now let us see
why there is a need for sophisticated
graphics let us say there is a need for
you to show multiple plots in a single
figure as shown below how do you do this
what are the challenges that you face
when you want to create figure that was
shown in the earlier slide so the exact
figure can be reproduced using this code
which is shown here for this what you
have to know is you have no way to
introduce value which columns have data
for them to be selected for plot E and
you have to also pose
she eats crap in the green etc even
though you do all of this operations the
visuals are less pleasing that is where
we need more sophisticated graphics
packages in our this is where the
ggplot2 comes into picture the ggplot2
provides a very beautiful package for
generating graphics in higher in this
course we haven't deal much with this
applaud in summary we have seen how to
generate scatter plots line plots and
bar plots in the eye we have also seen
the challenges and disadvantages of
basic graphics and the need for using
the advanced packages such as ggplot2
for generating beautiful graphics in our
with this we end the our module for this
course wish you all the best for the
next modules in this course thank you
[Music]
[Music]
