now i know my audience y'all are
aspiring software developers or current
software developers so i know you've
come across a video titled a day in the
life of a software engineer youtube is
absolutely plastered with them eating
typing eating meeting eating
i don't know why they eat so much but
i've made my fair share of daily life of
a software engineer even day in life
computer science student and plenty of
others have done the same as what i
tried to do and showed you the actual
day and some of the actual work of a
software engineer instead of just what
is being done just typing is a lot
different than the actual work that is
getting done as a software engineer but
regardless of what they showed you
every single one had something in common
and that is this
they're all taking place
inside
at a computer and that is the first
realization i want you to make as a
software engineer for most of your life
you're going to be inside sitting at a
computer now personally i don't see that
being most suitable for most humans we
i'd think we weren't made to be sitting
at a desk for eight hours a day so just
out the gate if that's something that
doesn't sound too appetizing to you then
you may want to take a deeper look into
the potential career path that you're
currently looking at as a software
engineer and that's what we're doing in
this video looking at the hard truths of
being a software engineer what it takes
and not just
the highlight reel so
let's get started
[Music]
now we have a lot to discuss in this
video so sit back relax with a hot cup
of coffee i'm making mine now in the
most insane way possible and so far in
my experience the best way possible
commentary they're the sponsor of
today's video a coffee company of coffee
nerds who have figured out a way to brew
with a process that's carefully
calibrated to extract as much flavor as
possible from the beans which is then
flash frozen into what they call an icy
puck i don't know if i've ever heard a
cooler name and all i do since i drink
my coffee black is i drop the puck into
my cup pour in my hot water that melts
the puck which by the way is brewed 10
times stronger so i can do just this
it's not diluting by any means and i
enjoy by far the best cup of coffee i've
ever had and this fully recyclable as is
all of their packaging and shipping
materials which for someone living on
the coast seeing trash wash up onto the
beach left and right is incredibly
important to me speaking of which i've
been taking this on our beach days i've
been taking this on our boat days i just
put a capsule in my bag and once it
melts i just pour it over my ice water
and don't tell because while i almost
always drink my coffee black sometimes
instead of water i'll pour it over iced
milk to make myself a latte if you
haven't tried that it's
it's really good so i'm going to enjoy
my coffee and wanted to let you know
that currently cometier isn't fully open
to the public just yet but by going
through my link below you're able to
bypass the wait list and also receive 50
off your first purchase that's just one
dollar a cup enjoy
most of the experiences you see are from
software engineers on youtube sharing
their day
but that is a biased point of view
they're entertainers they want you to
watch the entire video think about it it
is a lot easier to sit down and watch an
hour-long movie that has been directed
and filmed and has a story throughout
rather than sitting down and watching an
hour-long lecture can we agree on that
and people who want to share their
experience want you to be captivated by
their day they want you to watch the
video as long as they can get you to
watch the video because the whole idea
with a lot of these channels especially
on youtube whether it be software
engineer or not the whole idea is for
them or for you to forget about the
entire outside world and focus on their
video
watch their video in its entirety be
consumed by being entertained by it and
well that is the main goal whether it is
helping you out or educating you that is
the goal i only bring this up because
it's a highlight reel at best or
misinforming you at worst so don't look
at these videos and think that's exactly
how it is because you can't see into the
minds of these individuals they aren't
just typing aimlessly on a keyboard
they're deep in thought trying to figure
out the solution to the task at hand and
then doing research and implementing
that solution in code and in their
meetings they're not just shooting the
briefs with the co-workers they're being
told that the entire week's worth of
work before is completely worthless
because the client decided to go another
route and they don't want that feature
implemented anymore or you're being told
that your task was done incorrectly so
now you have to redo it and those
meetings are never fun but you know it's
not all bad sometimes you are just
shooting the breeze with your co-workers
and discussing what to do next and
plenty of the things that i mentioned in
this video may be see
seen as
negative or or whatever it may be or it
may
appear that i'm trying to discourage
some individuals from becoming software
engineers no i'm trying to show you the
reality of what it's like to be a
software engineer not just the good
thing so if i do focus on things that
are a little bit more
negative
don't see that the majority of the job
is negative i'm just trying to
counteract all of the
positive and all of the good things the
highlight reel that people are putting
out there but neglecting to do so for
the bad thing because you need to
understand that in any job especially
this job there's a give-and-take
good and bad which brings us to the
everlasting question especially staying
on topic when it comes to software
engineering youtubers like myself i'm
not i'm not i'm not calling anyone out
in particular i am a software engineer
and computer science youtuber just like
everyone else and i made the same videos
because the everlasting question
really contradicts how a lot of these
people portray their day as being always
good always positive always fun
but most of these youtubers who display
it like that end up quitting their
full-time software engineering job to do
youtube full-time well if it is all
butterflies and rainbows on the software
engineering side of that then why do
they quit
that job i know why i've done it but for
me it may be a little bit different than
most so i've always wanted to work for
myself if i never discovered youtube i'd
probably be freelancing so for me it
wasn't always about what i was doing as
long as i could
do something that i enjoyed and work for
myself
many of these individuals probably
shared the same sentiment after all they
did start a youtube channel for a reason
that reason could be because they
thought it was fun because they wanted
to help people out or because they saw
it leading to their financial freedom
whatever it may be they saw this as
being part of their future but also
because if they truly enjoyed coding
this was a way for them to make it
living but also be able to work on their
own projects which brings me to one of
the biggest points of this video which i
feel like people never talk about that
is working as a professional software
engineer is working for someone else's
company working on someone else's idea
you may love the idea you may love
working on that app but you never have
the final say on what features are
implemented or even exactly how it looks
or the overall growth of the company and
where that app will be in five years for
lack of a better term you're very much a
code monkey being told what to do and
how to do it with very little creative
freedom some creative freedom but very
little i personally can't work that way
but for some people that may be their
cup of tea you need that direction you
need that structure so this may be
perfect for you i know people who thrive
on not completing the overall idea or
worrying about the overall app
but
solving the task at hand each individual
task is like a new
challenge for them and that is what gets
them going in the morning they know that
they get to work on this task that task
and that task they don't have to worry
about the growth of the company or the
growth of the app or the user interface
they are a backend developer and all
they have to worry about are
these tasks today
and that's basically it there really is
a luxury in that if you are wired that
way but if you are someone who got into
development because you wanted to create
your own
apps you wanted to make your ideas a
reality then
it gets a little bit dicey there but to
sum it all up many people get into
coding to make their ideas a reality it
starts off as a hobby but it becomes a
job once you make it your job the old
adage says do what you enjoy and you
never work a day in your life but making
something your job that you do enjoy
will often times take the enjoyment out
of it so what is an actual day in the
life of a software engineer well this
will vary from company to company team
to team person to person but the overall
structure is typically the same you have
stand up about every day this is when
you get together with your team you talk
about what you did since the last stand
up any roadblocks that you're facing and
what you plan to do next now when you
accomplish everything that you set out
to do the day before your confidence is
through the roof you're a genius
programmer and you just want to tell
everyone what you did in that stand up
and you love it
however there's a flip side to this coin
if you spent the entire previous day
working on a two-hour task and still
maybe haven't even figured it out well
then you just feel
bad
bad no bad doesn't really begin to
describe you
begin to maybe get a little bit anxious
you're very stressed out you feel
incompetent because you're the developer
being paid to do a particular job and
complete this particular test and it
says is estimated to be completed in two
hours and you spent six hours doing it
the day before and you still haven't
even completed it it's like if you have
to present something in front of the
entire class that you know you didn't do
and the whole entire class knows you
failed but at work
you're not only worried about what your
classmates think of you or your teacher
thinks of you or your grade
but the stability of your job your
livelihood i mean you tried but you just
couldn't successfully complete the task
it is an incredibly stressful feeling
that i hated every second of when that
would happen to me and honestly it could
just be because i felt like my team were
genius programmers i mean in their
defense they kind of were they had 20
years experience each under their belt
so
yeah
needless to say i was a little bit
intimidated by them even though they
were incredibly nice and help me out
even with those traits i still felt that
way with that being said i couldn't even
begin to think about having a boss or a
team that just like
is mean or
opposite of that that would suck but you
know maybe you're a better programmer
than me maybe that stuff never happens
to you so you never have to feel that
way i don't know i can tell you my
experiences and mishaps all i want but
at the end of the day many things cannot
be learned from other people's mistakes
oftentimes you have to make the mistake
or
in this instance you have to experience
that situation in order to understand
what it actually feels like and maybe
you thrive in those situations maybe you
hate those situations but you'll never
know until you're in it it kind of
reminds me of an analogy it's like
whenever you're at a restaurant and the
waiter hands you your food and they sail
it you know hot plates so they put on
your table but you gotta see just how
hot that plate is so you touch it
sometimes you gotta figure things out
for yourself on the job the amount of
coding that is expected from you is
typically around six hours this is how
they base it on tasks so if you have a
two hour task a three hour task and a
one hour test you can complete that in
one day but you can't complete another
two hour task on top of that for the
eight hours a day because you have stand
up you have meetings you have breaks all
of that ties in to your eight hour day
so don't go in expecting that you're
going to be coding for eight hours a day
typically what your team should expect
is around six
now if you've seen my video how long i
code a day you will see that i'm
typically burned out around four hours
so an extra two is a lot to handle but
it also depends on the work at hand i've
spent eight ten hours almost straight
you know i have to eat and go to the
bathroom and stuff but basically almost
straight coding and when i say coding
that is basically by the definition that
i laid out in that video how long i code
a day and that is including everything
from research to actually typing out
your code but that's when i'm working on
something simple or fairly
straightforward something that's already
been laid out but when you have to
figure out how to code something that
has never been done in your language in
your stack in your context well then it
makes things quite a bit more difficult
more brain power is needed to figure out
the logic you have to figure out how to
use it in your language with your stack
in your context and the more brain power
you use the more energy you use and the
quicker you get burnt out i don't mean
burnt out in how you've been hearing it
a lot lately but just on that day more
brain power is needed to figure out the
logic and to implement it in your
language using your stack and in your
exact context and the more brain power
you use the more drained you get and
you're just tired i've said this before
how individuals who work hard labor will
never understand the mental drain that
it takes to do our job because it's not
physically difficult and the best way i
can describe the difference between
those eight to ten hour coding days and
the four hour coding days it's like
digging a little hole with a little
shovel for eight hours a day compared to
digging a giant hole with a real shovel
you're still digging
coding but one is much more taxing and
i've found a fine balance of being able
to
figure out when i've when i met my wits
in for that day if i'm working on
something a little bit more difficult
then maybe i'm in there three to four
hours
don't need to worry about anything else
at hand that needs to be done i'll save
that for another day but if i want to
relax and i want to do a little bit
easier work and nothing too too mentally
draining then i can do that too and i
can work as long as i want on my own
projects but when you're at work you're
expected to do six hours a day give or
take whatever your company wants you to
do if you have to do more than
the lord help you it's like all coding
work is treated equally when it's not
equal some tasks are a lot easier than
others but if you have a lot of
difficult tasks to do one day it's hard
to hit six hours of coding on difficult
tasks that is one of the downfalls when
it comes to working in a professional
environment and that's the entire
premise of what i wanted to discuss here
in today's video not to to bring anyone
away from being a software engineer but
rather show you some of the realities
that others do not on the outside you
see typing you see this wonderful app
that they created but you never see what
goes on in the meetings you never see
what goes on in their heads when they're
actually doing this work and the
difficulty of it and the nuances and
differences of working as a professional
developer than just as a hobby developer
i hope you learned something from
today's video but more so i hope you
give it a little bit more thought into
the potential career that you're looking
at based on the reality of it and not
how it's portrayed it's a fun job at
times but it feels like it can be the
worst job too let me know if you've had
a similar experience in the field or if
you've had a different experience in the
field completely opposite of how i feel
because at the end of the day this is
just one man's opinion one man's view
and experiences that i'm sharing and
that's mine i can't really speak from
anybody else's point of view so i'd love
to hear some of y'all current software
developers on y'all's experience what
you agree with what you disagree with
down in the comment section below like
subscribe hit the bell and enjoy
yourself some icy puck coffee from
cometier and i'll see you on the next
one
[Music]
you
