foreign
between International Tech giants like
meta Google and a small size d2c startup
that is running from Jakarta is it the
product their services or their work
culture not really the biggest common
denominator between old tech companies
globally today's data and AI the
overarching need of utilizing data for
decision making and implementing the
almost necessary capabilities of AI in a
product or service has become the demand
of the hour all things considered
wouldn't it be amazing if you can
utilize AI to perform some of the most
complex processing and analytics task on
data I think your answer would be yes
with that being said hello everyone and
welcome to this extremely important
video in data analytics using AI in this
video we will discuss how you can
utilize AI for performing data analytics
which is the very first skill you must
learn to make a career in the field of
data analytics business analytics and
even becoming a data scientist but
before we begin with that make sure to
subscribe to our Channel and hit the
Bell icon for regular updates let's
quickly discuss the agenda of the video
before we begin if you are someone who
is interested in building a career in
data analytics by graduating from the
best universities or a professional who
elicits to switch careers with data
analytics by learning from the experts
then try giving a short to Simply
learn's postgraduate program in data
analytics collaboration with IBM the
link is mentioned in the description box
and you should navigate to the course
page where you can find a complete
overview of the program being offered
and now moving back to our topic the
fear is in there whether it's marketing
automating building driving medical
practice or anything you name AI can do
it coming into data analytics which is
believed to be one of the promising
career options
AI is getting integrated and it is
leveraging analytics by enhancing and
revolutionizing the way data is analyzed
interpreted and used to derive
meaningful insights here are some key
ways in which AI is leveraging Analytics
number one data processing and
preparation
AI algorithms automate and streamline
data processing tasks including data
cleaning data integration and data
transformation
this enables faster and more efficient
data preparation ensuring that high
quality data is available for analysis
the next is pattern recognition and
anomaly detection
AI powered analytics systems excellent
recognizing complex patterns in large
data sets machine learning algorithms
can identify hidden patterns Trends and
relationships that may not be apparent
to human analyst additionally a
algorithms can detect anomalies or
outliers in data helping to identify
potential issues or fraud land
activities and the next is Predictive
Analytics AI techniques such as
predictive modeling and forecasting
enable organizations to make accurate
predictions about future events or
outcomes based on historical data by
leveraging a algorithms business can
anticipate customer Behavior demand
Trends Market changes and more allowing
for proactive decision making
and the next we have is natural language
processing and text Analytics
AI powered NLP techniques enable the
analysis of unstructured data such as
text documents social media posts
customer reviews and emails by
extracting and analyzing textual
information organizations can gain
valuable insights into customer
sentiment market trends and emerging
topics and the next we have is automated
insights and Reporting AI powered
analytics systems can automatically
generate meaningful insights and reports
Based on data analysis this reduces the
time and effort required for manual
analysis and Reporting allowing analysts
to focus on higher value tasks like
interpretation and strategy development
and the next we have is personalization
and recommendation systems a algorithms
are employed in recommendation systems
that provide personal suggestions to
users based on their preferences
behavior and historical data this is
particularly prevalent in e-commerce
streaming services and content platforms
where AI driven recommendations enhance
user experiences and drive customer
engagement
and next we have is optimization and
decision support
a algorithms can optimize complex
processes and decision making by
evaluating multiple variables
constraints and scenarios for example AI
power optimization models can assist in
Supply Chain management resource
allocation inventory planning and
pricing strategies that helps
organizations achieve better operational
efficiency and core savings and the next
we have is continuous learning and
Improvement AI systems have the ability
to continuously learn and adapt based on
new data and feedback this allows
analytics models to improve their
accuracy and performance over time
making them more effective in generating
valuable insights and predictions
and by leveraging AI capabilities in
analytics organizations can unlock the
full potential of their data gain a
competitive advantage and drive
data-driven decision making across
various domains thus energy between Ai
and analytics is revolutionizing how
businesses abstract insights from data
leading to transformative outcomes and
Innovations
if you are watching this I believe you
are either an aspiring data analyst or a
professional already now the question of
the r is Will AI replace you should I
even care to proceed with a career in
data analytics don't worry we are here
to answer your questions and make things
less complicated or we believe we can
sort it out
now ai is designed to assist humans for
example chat Jeopardy bad and Bing the
smart AI language models can automate
the time consuming tasks such as writing
down emails performing data extraction
transformation and loading and
exploratory analysis and Reporting
however in the real time every
organization has specifically customized
needs and requirements a special set of
KRS and kpis to address you may have to
understand the business requirements and
build the custom dashboards you may have
to understand the real-time streaming of
data integrate AWS with power bi not
just these there are a gazillion tasks
that need human intervention and logics
AI still lacks the human cognition and
the ability acquiring the domain
knowledge which only a human can you as
a data analyst may need to understand
that AI can perform a redundant and
straightforward task but not the
critical operations which completely
rely on a human
only a human has the caliber to decode
the intentions of the client and
simplify the technical Concepts to known
technical client
has a strong focus on the business
outcomes most importantly try to unravel
the potential of AI and leverage it to
improvise and get ahead if you are
someone that not only performs analysis
but also is a toast wearer the
organization with the right business
strategies in very short time then you
are someone which all major Tech joints
need and if you are someone who is
interested in building a career in data
analytics by graduating from the best
universities that teach you these ways
for a professional who elicits to switch
careers with data analytics by learning
from the experts or data analyst who
wants to leverage the best out of your
career then try giving a short to Simply
runs postgraduate program in data
analytics in collaboration with IBM the
link is mentioned in the description box
and you should navigate to the course
page where you can find a complete audio
of the programming offered take action
upskill and get ahead with that we have
reached the end of this tutorial on data
analytics with AI if you have any
questions please feel free to comment
and will have it answered for you as
soon as possible until next time thank
you for watching stay safe keep learning
and get ahead
staying ahead in your career requires
continuous learning and upskilling
whether you're a student aiming to learn
today's top skills or a working
professional looking to advance your
career we've got you covered explore our
impressive catalog of certification
programs in Cutting Edge domains
including data science cloud computing
cyber security AI machine learning or
digital marketing designed in
collaboration with leading universities
and top corporations and delivered by
industry experts choose any of our
programs and set yourself on the path to
Career Success click the link in the
description to know more
hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learn YouTube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos turn it up and get certified
click here
foreign
