quantum computers have the potential to
completely change how we use technology
in the future this this is a quantum
computer this is a quantum computer
quantum computers Quantum technology
what on Earth is a quantum computer did
you know that there are seven distinct
stages in the development of AI in
Quantum Computing in this era where
technology is changing the way we live
and work understanding the seven stages
of AI in Quantum Computing can be truly
enlightening in this video we will guide
you through each stage providing a
simple and comprehensible explanation
what you are going to see in this video
might look complex or pure science
fiction but it's far from that even
though the development of AI and Quantum
Computing is in its early stages it will
be the future of how we interact with
technology so take the information with
an open mind and see it more as food for
thought
with that said let's start with the
first stage stage one Quantum AI
algorithms to understand this first
stage it's essential to grasp what
Quantum Computing really is in contrast
to classical computers which encode
information in binary bits as either
zeros or ones quantum computers utilize
the principles of quantum mechanics
through Quantum bits or qubits these
qubits thanks to the peculiarities of
quantum mechanics can be in a
superposition of States effectively
being in multiple States at once this
Quantum superposition along with the
ability of qubits to be entangled where
the state of one qubit is directly
related to the state of another gives
quantum computers their immense
computational power
now when we talk about Quantum AI
algorithms we're referring to AI systems
that utilize these Quantum principles to
improve their speed and computational
ability these systems leverage Quantum
properties to process information in
ways that classical computers simply
can't
in the context of artificial
intelligence this enhanced computing
power can be employed to accelerate
machine learning algorithms which are at
the core of AI functionality
machine learning involves the use of
statistical techniques to enable AI
systems to improve at tasks with
experience however some of these
techniques involve computations that are
exceedingly demanding for classical
computers particularly when dealing with
large data sets Quantum AI algorithms
come into play here promising the
possibility of Performing these
computations more efficiently they can
potentially process enormous amounts of
data and run complex computations in a
fraction of the time it would take
classical computers
this stage of quantum AI algorithms
represents the initial application of
quantum principles to AI enhancing their
power but still within the confines of a
set of quantum rules provided to them
and with their functionality tailored to
very specific tasks
consider for example the task of
optimizing a complex logistical problem
such as the optimal routing of delivery
vehicles a classical AI might struggle
to process all the possible combinations
as the number of vehicles and
destinations increases a Quantum AI
however with its ability to maintain and
manipulate a superposition of many
possible combinations simultaneously
could potentially find the optimal
solution much more rapidly stage 2
hybrid Quantum classical Learning
Systems this is an area where Quantum
Computing and machine learning converge
to form a new field of study at this
stage AI systems don't merely use
quantum Computing to speed up
calculations they're now beginning to
leverage the principles of quantum
mechanics to learn and improve their
performance
Quantum machine learning qml combines
machine learning's statistical analysis
with Quantum computing's supercharged
processing power
it focuses on algorithms that can learn
from and make predictions on Quantum
data as well as classical data
the goal of qml is to discover and apply
Quantum Computing algorithms to the
machine learning process to achieve
results that weren't possible with
classical computers
think of this stage as an evolution from
the infant stage of quantum AI
algorithms to a more childlike stage
where learning and growth start to
happen
in this phase the quantum AI is not just
following Quantum rules but also starts
to learn from its experiences and the
data it processes
to illustrate this imagine a Quantum AI
system tasked with pattern recognition
in a massive data set a classical AI
might take significant time to analyze
the data and identify patterns in
contrast a Quantum machine Learning
System could theoretically analyze all
the data simultaneously due to the
principle of superposition quickly
identifying patterns and correlations
that would be time consuming or even
impossible for classical AI to find
stage 3 specialized Quantum AI systems
this stage is a leap from the previous
ones as it doesn't merely incorporate
Quantum principles to accelerate AI but
it begins to carve a niche in specific
domains
Quantum algorithms in specialized Fields
refers to the implementation of AI and
Quantum Computing that are specifically
tuned and optimized for certain tasks or
fields
think of it as an evolution from the
childlike Quantum machine learning to
the Adolescent phase where the quantum
AI starts to specialize and master
certain domains these domains can range
from cryptography to quantum chemistry
optimization problems and more Quantum
algorithms when leveraged in these
fields can perform at levels far beyond
what is achievable using classical
Computing an excellent example of this
would be Shore's algorithm
Shore's algorithm a Quantum algorithm
formulated by mathematician Peter Shore
can Factor large numbers exponentially
faster than the best known algorithm
running on a classical computer this has
massive implications for Fields like
cryptography which often relies on the
difficulty of factoring large numbers as
a security measure
another instance is in the field of
quantum chemistry a Quantum AI could
simulate complex molecular structures
and reactions with high Precision
opening up new possibilities for drug
Discovery and Material Science
these Quantum AI systems much like the
prodigies of the human world demonstrate
Advanced abilities within their
specialized Fields they exploit the
quantum nature of the universe to
analyze vast amounts of data identify
patterns and make informed decisions at
an unprecedented speed and complexity
at this stage Quantum AI begins to
dominate in specialized areas offering
Solutions and insights that were once
deemed unfeasible stage 4 Quantum
assisted learning systems
we've now crossed the Midway point of
our journey and have arrived at a truly
awe-inspiring stage Quantum assisted
Learning Systems here we see AI systems
that harness Quantum Computing to assist
in their learning processes at this
stage the AI does not just process and
execute Quantum computations but
actively utilizes quantum mechanics to
enhance its ability to learn and adapt
techniques from Quantum information
Theory are used to improve the learning
algorithms at the heart of AI for
example Quantum data could be used to
train these systems enhancing their
ability to recognize patterns and draw
conclusions from vast data sets even
those with noisy or incomplete data
furthermore Quantum assisted Learning
Systems can use a property called
quantum entanglement to instantly
correlate information across vast data
sets regardless of the distance between
individual pieces of data
this can potentially lead to
significantly more efficient pattern
recognition and decision-making
processes than classical AI systems in
other words Quantum assisted Learning
Systems start to mimic not just human
reasoning but also our ability to learn
from experience and improve over time
the journey is starting to get even more
interesting Stage 5 fully autonomous
Quantum AI as we proceed into the realm
of fully autonomous Quantum AI we're
exploring a version of AI that while yet
to be fully realized represents a leap
beyond anything we've seen so far a
fully autonomous Quantum AI would be a
system that can independently use
quantum Computing principles to
understand learn adapt and Implement
knowledge across a broad spectrum of
tasks and Fields think of fully
autonomous Quantum AI as possessing the
functionality of an AGI system from our
previous AI stages but boosted by the
power of quantum computing
the AI wouldn't just excel in a specific
domain or mimic human-like reasoning it
would be able to perform any
intellectual task that a human can but
faster and more accurately thanks to
Quantum computation this kind of AI
could in theory read a scientific Paper
Understand its implications devise an
experiment to test the paper's thesis
and even interpret the results all
within a fraction of the time it would
take a team of human scientists the
possibilities of fully autonomous
Quantum AI are vast and while we're yet
to see one in action it remains one of
the most exciting Horizons in AI
research
stage 6 Quantum super intelligence here
things are about to get even more
extreme
this is a stage of AI where the system
not only possesses cognitive
capabilities that far surpass human
intelligence but does so with the speed
and efficiency of quantum Computing in
the world of quantum super intelligence
the AI can outperform humans in
virtually all economically valuable work
its ability to understand learn reason
and make decisions would be superior to
ours
it would be capable of solving problems
and creating solutions to issues that we
can't even begin to comprehend
imagine a Quantum super intelligence
working on the challenges we face today
such as climate change disease or global
inequality with its ability to process
vast amounts of data and calculate
probabilities at speeds we can't match
it might develop solutions to these
problems more effectively than any human
or team of humans ever could but with
great power comes great responsibility
the Advent of quantum super intelligence
would bring with it a host of ethical
and safety concerns the potential for
misuse or unintended consequences is
immense and warrants serious
consideration as we move forward in this
field stage 7 the quantum singularity
welcome to the point of no return
the quantum singularity or often simply
called the singularity
it is a hypothetical point when Quantum
super intelligence would result in Rapid
uncontrollable and irreversible changes
to civilization
in this scenario Quantum AI would not
only outsmart humans but also have the
capability to continually improve itself
at an exponential rate
this could lead to an explosion in
technological advancement the likes of
which we have never seen before
while the concept of quantum singularity
is exciting it's also highly speculative
and controversial
only time will tell what the future
holds for AI in Quantum computing
if you have made it this far comment
down below with the word 100 to confirm
that you have received the knowledge
from this video for more interesting
topics make sure you watch the
recommended video that you see on the
screen right now thanks for watching
