well let's start with a classical
computer a classical computer takes bits
ones and zeroes and arranges them in in
a core processor made up of classical
components processes them using Algar
and arithmetic and logical operations
and gets out an answer in the case of a
quantum computer we start off with a
different definition of the bit the bit
is now a superposition of ones and zeros
in other words it's a sort of parallel
one and zero at the same time if I take
n bits then I can explore all possible
questions to an some ask my computer
also the computer itself will exist in
many superposition states of possible
processes going on inside and it's that
parallelism that actually provides this
exponential speed-up for particular
problems one very important problem of
course is the problem of factorization
of very large numbers which is in
classical computers exponential in size
of the problem whereas in quantum
computers it takes polynomial time and
thus makes most of our internet
communications insecure if we can make a
quantum computer
