[Music]
human computer interaction is like a
fascinating conversation between humans
and machines imagine being at a lively
party where the gadgets are your fellow
guests when the interaction is smooth it
feels like chatting with a friend the
words flow the understanding is mutual
and the experience is delightful on that
note hello everyone welcome to the
session on human computer inter action
in this session we'll be discussing what
HCI is its interdisciplinary nature and
its practical applications in the real
world before we get started with the
topic please consider subscribing to our
YouTube channel and hit the Bell icon to
stay updated on the latest tech content
by edu Rea also take a look at the human
computer interaction for AI systems
design course offered by edua in India
in collaboration with the University of
Cambridge online this course equips
students with skills to create
userfriendly experiences for AI powered
systems and focuses on HCI principles
this course is curated and developed in
partnership with University of Cambridge
online ensuring participants receive a
certificate of achievement from the
University and access placement
assistance from edura once you finish
the human computer interaction for AI
systems designs course you will get a
certificate from the University of
Cambridge online that's well respected
in the industry taking the lead at
University of Cambridge course online is
Professor per Ola Christensen he serves
as a professor of interactive design
systems engineering within the
department of engineering at the
University of Cambridge and is
additionally recognized as a fellow of
Trinity College Cambridge to know more
details about the course curriculum and
the skills it covers please check the
course link provided in the description
box below without any further delay
let's get started with the topic human
computer interaction studies the design
and use of computer technology focusing
on the interfaces between people and
computers it aims to improve usability
and user experience by making computers
more userfriendly and creating better
ways for users to interact with
systems human computer interaction is a
multidisciplinary field that focuses on
the design and use of computer
technology centered around the
interactions between humans and
computers it involves the study planning
and design of the interaction between
people and
computers why is HCI required
understanding user needs and context
researchers and designers study and
analyze the needs preferences and
context of users through methods like
interviews observations and surveys
designing interactive systems based on
insights from user research interactive
systems are designed this involves
creating interfaces interactions and
experiences that enable users to achieve
their goals effectively and
enjoyably evaluating designs once a
design is implemented it's crucial to
evaluate its Effectiveness through
usability testing Analytics and feedback
from users this helps in identifying
areas for improvement ensuring that the
system remains user centered and meets
its intended goals what is HCI
interdisciplinary field HCI is a Nexus
where computer science meets psychology
design and social sciences it's a mash
up of disciplines bought together by a
shared goal improving human computer
interaction this multidisciplinary area
uses psychology to understand user
Behavior designed to build intuitive
interfaces and social sciences to study
technology societal influence resulting
in an integrated approach to technology
design and
implementation HCI in computer science
human computer interaction in computer
science focuses on the design and use of
computer technology centered around the
interfaces between people and computers
user centered design HCI heavily
emphasizes a user Centric approach in
designing interactive systems to ensure
they are usable and accessible
interaction design it explores how users
interact with computers and to design
interfaces that provide a good user
experience usability and accessibility
usability aims at making systems easy to
use efficient and enjoyable evaluation
techniques we various methods such as
humanistic evaluation cognitive
walkthroughs and usability testing are
used to access the usability of systems
HCI in Psychology human computer
interaction is deeply interwined with
psychology as it helps in understanding
how humans interact with computers and
other Technologies aiming to improve
user experience and interface design
cognitive psychology it studies mental
processes such as perception memory
problem solving and decision making
which are crucial for understanding how
users interact with computer systems
behavioral psychology observes how users
behave while interacting with technology
emotional and Social Psychology studies
emotions and social dynamics which can
influence user interactions with
technology ergonomics and human factors
focuses on optimizing the interact
action between users and systems by
understanding human behavior HCI in
design human computer interaction holds
a pivotal role in the field of design
aiming to create user Centric interfaces
and
experiences user Centric design at the
heart of HCI is the principle of
Designing with the user in mind this
involves understanding user needs
preferences and behaviors to create
interfaces that are intuitive and
enjoyable to use user experience and
user interface design ux design focuses
on enhancing user Satisfaction by
improving usability and accessibility
while UI design is concerned with the
aesthetic aspects of the interface
prototyping and testing HCI emphasizes
the importance of prototyping and
iterative testing to evaluate Design
Concepts and refine interfaces based on
user feedback
usability evaluation evaluating the
usability of a system to ensure it meets
the desired user experience goals is a
key aspect of HCI this can be achieved
through various methods such as euristic
evaluation usability testing and user
interviews HCI in social science human
computer interaction intersects with
social sciences in several meaningful
ways offering a lens through which to
examine the impact of technology on IND
individuals and
communities understanding social context
HCI researchers often delve into the
social context in which Technologies are
used this helps in understanding how
different cultural societal and
organizational settings influence the
use and impact of
Technologies technology adoption and
diffusion insights from social sciences
help HCI researchers understand the
factors that contribute to the adoption
and diffusion of new technologies within
communities social Computing this area
explores how people use Technologies in
Social contexts it encompasses studies
on social networks online communities
and other platforms where social
interaction is Central ethnographic
studies ethnography a method borrowed
from anthropology is used in HCI to
observe and analyze how people interact
with technology in their natur settings
providing Rich insights into the user
experience HCI design process or human
computer interaction design process is a
methodology used to solve problems and
design solutions that focus on the end
users needs and experiences empathize
this is the stage where designers work
to understand the users needs emotions
and behaviors this often involves
interviews observations and other forms
of user research to gather insights and
develop an understanding of user
challenges and needs Define in this
stage the insights gathered during the
empathized phase are analyzed to
identify the core problems or challenges
that need to be addressed the goal is to
define a clear problem statement that is
user centered id8 this is a
brainstorming phase where designers
generate a wide variety of ideas and
solutions for the defined problem
various techniques like brainstorming
mind mapping and others are used to come
up with Creative
Solutions prototype in the Prototype
stage designers create low Fidelity or
High Fidelity prototypes of the
solutions generated during the id8 phase
these prototypes are tangible or
interactive representations of the ideas
which allow both designers and users to
interact with the proposed
Solutions test this is is the phase
where the prototypes are tested with the
end users to gather feedback and
insights the feedback is then used to
refine the prototypes and solutions
leading to further iterations of
prototyping and testing until a
satisfactory solution is developed key
components of HCI input gadgets input
devices communicate with the computer
keyboards touch screens voice
recognition systems and gesture based
systems are examples of of such devices
they allow users to operate the system
and offer input to the computer devices
that produce output monitors speakers
printers and haptic devices are examples
of gadgets that offer feedback to the
user they let the computer deliver
visual audio or tactile feedback to the
user helping them to grasp the outcomes
of their
activities the user interface the user
interface is a comp component of a
system that allows users to interact
with the computer graphical user
interfaces command line interfaces and
natural language interfaces are all part
of it designing interactions this design
demonstrates how users interact with
computers planning the user interface
choosing acceptable input and output
devices and planning how the computer
response to human input are all part of
the process usability research re users
are asked to evaluate a system during
usability testing it entails activities
including monitoring how users interact
with the system Gathering feedback and
finding areas for improvement
accessibility accessibility means
creating interfaces that anybody
regardless of physical ability can use
human aspects This research looks at how
human interacts with technology it
considers cognitive load attention
perception and memory and it aims to
understand how these elements impact HCI
system design augmented virtual reality
AR and VR are transforming the way we
interact with computers and the world
around us AR overlays digital
information onto the real world while we
are creates a completely immersive
virtual
environment voice assistants voice
assistants like Siri Alexa and Google
Assistant are making it easier than ever
for people to interact with computers
voice assistants like Siri Alexa and
Google assistants are making it easier
than ever for people to interact with
computers Voice assistance can be used
to control devices search for
information and perform tasks like
sending messages and setting
alarms variable devices variable devices
like smart watches and fitness trackers
are becoming increasingly popular these
devices collect data about our health
and activity levels which can be used to
improve our fitness and well-being
natural language processing NLP is a
field of computer science that deals
with the interaction between computers
and human language NLP is used to
develop systems that can understand and
generate human
language with this we have come to the
end of this video and I hope you enjoyed
this video if you did make sure to
subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit
the Bell icon to never miss any Tech
content by edu Rea thank you for
watching and keep learning I hope you
have enjoyed listening to this video
please be kind enough to like it and you
can comment any of your doubts and
queries and we will reply them at the
earliest do look out for more videos in
our playlist And subscribe to Eddie Raa
channel to learn more happy
learning
