hi it's Anastasia and welcome to my
channel today I want to talk to you
about what programming language you
should learn if you want to get involved
in quantum computing I'm going to
introduce you to some of these quantum
computing frameworks and packages that
are out there and give you all the
resources that you need to get you
started on coding on real quantum
computers today and yes quantum
computers do exist they were actually
out there they're for real that's a
question I get asked a lot and you can
code and with some of these packages on
real quantum chips synthesis do tend to
code in a lot of different programming
languages so for example I've done work
at C C++ even Fortran so I graduated
college in 2012 and I actually still
used for trams the supercomputer
upstairs would only take that but don't
worry
quantum computing has come to a more
modern age so if you want to learn
coding and get involved in quantum
computing what programming language
should you study my recommendation is
for you to learn Python and I know you
hear that a lot but hear me out there's
three major reasons why you should learn
Python if you want to get involved in
quantum computing it's easy to learn
there's a ton of resources out there and
a lot of quantum computing frameworks
are written for Python now I know
there's a lot of awesome quantum
computing languages out there that are
not based on Python there's Q sharp
which is Microsoft's quantum programming
language based on c-sharp and they're
silk which is this new programming
language out of ETH Zurich which looks
really cool but I want to cover those in
another video so if you're new to
programming and eventually want to get
involved with quantum computing these
are the reasons that I think you should
learn Python so number one it's simple
syntax and easy to learn Python is
beginner friendly even if you're new to
programming and haven't touched code
before Python is almost written like a
sentence so you can almost intuitively
feel like what it's supposed to do and
Python is basically everywhere for
example the Mac OS comes with it
pre-installed so you don't even have to
install anything or do any complicated
setup to get started with Python you can
do so many things with Python I've used
it for web apps web scrapers automate
some boring stuff to save me time so
it's a pretty amazing language in fact
according to stack overflow Python is
now the most popular programming
language overtaking Java and JavaScript
so definitely a great thing to learn
number two lots of resources out there
like I mentioned you can use Python for
scripting web development a
and now quantum computing because people
use it for so many things there are so
many resources out there so you can
learn from books YouTube videos or
interactive coding tutorials and because
python is beginner friendly and a lot of
people learn it as their first
programming language it'll introduce you
to all these broader coding concepts so
don't worry if you don't know anything
about for loops or recursion it'll
usually be covered in these resources so
down below in the description I've
linked a bunch of my favorite Python
learning resources my favorite online
courses dr. chucks Python for everybody
I really love it because it not only
introduces you to Python thinking but
also introduce you to mathematical and
computational thinking if you're more of
a book reader here are two books I'd
recommend for learning about Python the
first one is called learn Python the
hard way and it's been updated for
Python 3 and it's one of the first
programming books I've ever picked up
the other one that I heard great things
about is Python crash course for those
who'd like to do more YouTube videos and
learning coding from there free code
camp has a four-and-a-half-hour youtube
tutorial so just make sure to break it
up into little chunks and make a study
plan to get through it and finally if
you learn better through interactive
coding tutorials Python orgs learning
tutorials are amazing and number three
the most important reason why you should
learn Python is because there's so many
Python frameworks for quantum computing
a few years ago if you wanted to code on
a quantum computer it meant that you had
to be a researcher in a secret lab or in
graduate school to get access to one now
that's not true anymore quantum
computers exist in their cloud systems
let's let you log in and run code on a
real quantum computer companies are now
making quantum computers this is really
opened up the opportunity for anyone who
wants to try the running code on a
quantum computer to do it a lot of these
packages are also open source and
welcome contributions from anyone so you
can really get started right now with
programming for quantum computers while
there are more quantum computing
frameworks than just these that I'm
gonna talk about some of them are kind
of close source or not available to
anyone unless you're part of a
university or a group so I really wanted
to focus on the ones where you don't
need any special access so let's talk
about cirque Circus Google's library for
writing manipulating and simulating
quantum circuits currently you can't run
any of these circuits on Google's
quantum computing chips but they have
said that'll make it available soon so
cross your fingers
another really cool thing about Google
is that the team at X has released
tensorflow quantum this is really
awesome because there's a ton of people
there working on quantum machine
learning tens our little quantum works
with quantum data and working with both
classical machine learning models and
quantum models together to start
learning about tensorflow quantum go to
their website because there's a ton of
code and learning samples and jupiter
notebooks that you can play around with
to learn more about the system another
framework is called kiss kit kiss kit is
IBM software development package for
working with noisy quantum computers at
all different levels they have 4
different modules to use called Terra
err Ignace and aqua used for working
with quantum computers from the circuit
and the pulse level all the way up to
the optimized algorithms level Terra has
the low-level elements so for example
the circuits and the pulses air is a
simulator and the noise models eNOS is
really used for mitigation of those
noise models and aqua is used for higher
level quantum algorithms you can run
these on IBM's real quantum chips in the
cloud iBM has also released an open
source textbook with basic quantum
computing concepts and how to use kiss
kit they also have a ton of tutorials
and Jupiter notebooks that are already
set up with example code and concepts so
you can run code very quickly motion is
D waves tool you can use ocean to
connect 2d ways leap platform and run
code on their simulators or D waves
actual machines do you wave is a quantum
annealer so it's a little bit different
from the other two this type of machine
is great for optimization problems where
you need to quickly search over the
space and find a minimum or a solution
to a problem the webinar series has a
super-fun tutorial in choosing a Pokemon
team using Q Bo which is quantum
unconstrained binary optimization which
is a common algorithm and machine
learning so you can use a quantum
computer to choose the best Pokemon team
beyond that there's just so many
packages and tool boxes out there for
Python to make working with quantum
computers way easier for example a q-tip
or project you also a company called
Xanadu has released Penny Lane which is
a Python library for quantum machine
learning that connects to a bunch of
different cloud platforms and helps you
run quantum code on real computers so
python is a great programming language
to learn if you're interested in working
with quantum computers one day it's also
a generally good programming language to
have in your skill set a bunch of
companies are hiring Python programmers
and it's one of the fastest growing
languages out there so whether you're
just starting out in computer science
you're an experienced programmer there's
a chance for anyone at any level to
become involved with quantum computing
today so I've included a bunch of
resources below all the ones I've talked
about the different webinars and
tutorials that I've talked about in this
video click the description they'll all
be in there so I hope you enjoyed this
video and I hope you found some
interesting new resources and are
considering getting into quantum
computing programming so if you did I'd
appreciate it if you smash the like
button below and subscribe if you want
more videos on this and feel free to
comment down below if you have any
questions on quantum computing or
software I'd be happy to answer
