in this video we're going to look at
HTML HTML stands for hypertext markup
language HTML is the programming
language used to develop websites before
we look at some HTML basics it's
important you know what we mean by
structure and presentation with HTML
every website should be designed with
consideration of structure and
presentation but what's the difference
the structure refers to the actual
content on the website whereas the
presentation prefers the layout and
style of the website the release is
important to know the difference is we
actually use a different language for
each we create the structure using HTML
but we create the presentation using the
language called CSS the best way of
looking at it is the HTML code shows the
content for the CSS controls how the
content is presented here is an example
of CSS code
remember this puts nothing on our
website but once we write HTML code the
CSS code will determine what that text
will look like when displayed in your
browser in this code we were actually
describing different sections of text H
refers to the header just take a look at
leaves one by one so here's what header
1 looks like or h1 you can see it uses
the Arial font is also centered and has
two font size 32 next we have had a 3
more page 3 this uses a font from the
seventh family which the collection of
fonts included Times New Roman courier
and more it also uses font size 16
finally we have the P code which is for
paragraph this is what our main text
will look like on the web page we have
chosen to use a font from the sans-serif
family and there's the list of
cellphones we've justified our text but
you can't really see here it's only one
word and we're using the font size 12
well then you'll notice the texts are
all different colors that's because
we've set them two different colors in
our CSS code the colors are represented
using hex but we'll look at that in more
detail some other time
let's now see some HTML code also just
when we do load HTML code you'll notice
the text examples I've got there they're
all about the same size I didn't want to
change the science just to make sure it
was easier to read yeah kind of so HTML
code what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
break down the code but we're gonna
break it down not line by line but tag
by tag okay let's start off with HTML
this is known as the root element and it
makes a clearly using HTML what do you
notice other tags is data or text is
thought in between the tags the start
and the end of the tag is recognized
because the ending tag has that forward
slash and the start of it
okay next we've got the head tag this is
known as a document head and it's used
to contain information about the file
you can see in our example the head tag
actually contains information about the
CSS code that we saw on the previous
screen next you've got the body tag the
body tag contains all the content for
the page and finally you already seen
h1h BMP in CSS well we also put them
here as tags these are section tags
header one has a clear and paragraph you
can have a range of different types of
headers if they had a warrant
to do it a 3 and a 4 and a 5 etc the way
these different sections were looked I
actually defined in the CSS file as I've
already seen alright so here is our HTML
code you can see here is a line for the
CSS and over here is the actual content
on the internal code now we will see on
the right that is the content being
displayed but I was if we were to ignore
any CSS code okay now if we consider the
CSS code in that line above because the
referencing up there you will see the
difference it would now make the code
those exact same text but now it
actually has its formal layout based on
that stuff in the code and there is the
CSS code in case you want to just have a
quick look to see how it ends up the way
it did feel free to pause the video here
to make some notes alright and that's
everything you need to know about HTML
and it gets a bit of CSS as well
