why it is third design and visualization
especially why 3d computer graphics our
course title is digital design and
visualization why visualization matters
even simply say very pragmatic very
practical reason for enhancing your
design visualization skills okay how to
enhance your design technique design
representation techniques another one
for moving forward to advanced design
computing issues such as being okay
you have to know geometry modeling first
and then move to information modeling
approach him approach and even more
advanced approaches okay
main focus is here enhancing your design
representation design visualization
skills okay
let's briefly take a look again history
of computer aided design history of CAD
is a history of how to understand design
what is design ok around the 50 years
ago when the sketch pad the first caddy
system okay line drawing header system
computers computer system invented at
that time people believed that the
design is a drawing of the product that
is why we are focusing on elevation
plans perspective was something line
drawings okay so geometric drafting in
2d was the CAD system at the time but
some smart people invented 3ds of his
face the model approach okay Sophie
space the 3d representation it's 3d okay
you can rotate this box you can see it
happy front view section and so on
geometric surface modeling in 3d that is
so-called surface based 3d model even
smarter people
suggested and implemented 3d solid
modeling approach why solid think about
this one surface phase 3d looking object
looking 3d but surface doesn't have
thickness in other words it's
mathematical definition not real object
but can you find zero thickness object
in their world there is nothing there is
nothing like that in other words in real
world even if it's very very thin or
very lightweight anyway it has thickness
it has weight okay so we need to sort
the feel in the definition of geometry
so there is solely the model realistic
okay even smarter people invented
suggested and invented a parametric
model okay point line they are all
mathematical definition something
abstract something unreal it's not
realistic in real world we are using
with its depth thickness height what if
you want to control this one change
higher height and then this one going to
be updated okay not controlling parties
or lines and so on the most advanced one
is here
entire rest of things are the part of
this one more information what kind of
information compositional analytical and
fabrication representations of the
product going to be part of this model
so there is Building Information
modelling this semester we are still
focusing on this one
what if you use only 2d CAD characters
to the drawing trees that's going to be
here but thankfully we are here but the
problem is it's exactly same to sketchup
but lots of powerful and predefined well
defined as
facts of design visualization things in
3d Max and related tools so this is the
focus of this master how about next
semester rest of things and this one
also one part of the next semester's
these are design and beam course ok
anyway this is the scope of this
semester some prob others of course the
subject but not domain
anyway in my poetry is here ok let's
quickly review design mode we have
learned before
very simple mode of thought your brain
no one can see your brain
ok what is the inside of your head ok
it's not possible before you you are
saying something you are drawing
something you are creating some computer
file visualization or something else
before doing that no one can see your
idea but it's very still important to
you guys take a look the description
next one is mode of expression something
to be visualized final stage of course
mode of production ok
no need to say anyway take a look visual
equivalent visually equivalent to your
design concept design idea design
approach ok visualization is the most
important thing you need to achieve in
in your design expression mode okay how
about design media design by hand for
several thousands of thousand years
compared to human history more than 99%
of history used hand drawing ok pencil
or pens whatever it is but in this class
we are using computers but I told you
just 40 60 years ago computer has
invented carry systems just four years
okay your computer - 3d max 2015
released two years ago okay anyway we're
gonna use computers designed by penciled
computing that's the change we
encountered the pencil is the most basic
media of design nowadays you can simply
quickly draw by hand for your design
okay that's your kind of primitive idea
schedule or something but this is design
computing course we have lots of IT lots
of technologies we're gonna use new
media that's why I call digital design
this is the design media okay
you have to maximize the effect the
power of your media okay your media in
this room in this class of course it's
computers you are using smartphones
tablets some mobile devices mostly for
fun or for communicating with friends
but anyway you can use such some IT
tools for your design something
productive things here is an example
student walk freshman walk okay
freshman walk they didn't know any
computer software for design but they
have learned the Sketchup puree some
renderers Photoshop and they could make
this kind of visualization how about
this one
Jewish Museum slip box some something
not 100% but anyway looking realistic
looking realistic visualizations line
stroke Sketchup visualization scale
styles I assume that you are already
well-known to design visualization using
rhino autocad sketchup play array but in
this master 3d max design 3d max design
and auto
material mentalray some technical
aspects regarding such tourists and
Autodesk tours some primitive
introductory things about Autodesk Revit
and so on okay
that's the skull last week
I show you this one before what you have
to learn are listed up here some gray
phone's hardware internet software
operating systems some fundamentals in
engineering theory but anyway focus on
fundamentals in the lecture in the
lecture I'm gonna let you know what is
the critical one Dementors of design
computing theories okay we have midterm
exam November 21st regarding my lecture
oh okay based upon my lecture you're
gonna have the elec exam in the lab
exercise hours I told you again and
again in 3d max design mentor eight
we're a Photoshop intro to rabbit and
possible some more applications it's up
to you anyway that's the subject for lab
exercise even more things about design
computing such as 3d printing in this
semester you're gonna asked you want to
be asked to print something create
something by 3d max and print them out
using 3d max sorry 3d printers laser
scan photogrammetry virtual reality they
are one one of the subjects we're gonna
deal with in this semester okay
let's take a look at this 3d rendering
okay this is kind of very famous image
okay this is not a picture of course
it's a computer-generated image render
image so if you click this you can find
out some website link 3d rendering on
the Wikipedia there is the image okay
actually it's not important but anyway
gears Tran with appareil using radiosity
radiosity is one one of the technology
is available nowadays in photorealistic
rendering something like this even if
it's not kind of 3d max generated anyway
by using 3d Max and recently developed
technologies you can make this kind of
visualization even today actually
but anyway lots of more and
sophisticated handling you need but my
point here is nowadays complete
computing comfortable ideation technique
is very very advanced what you need to
do is take maximum advantages so we
existing technologies techniques ok is
this a picture or computer graphic why
it doesn't matter my answer is it
doesn't matter okay well of course this
is computer generated this is IKEA
product no matter what it is no problem
because visualization nowadays there is
no difference between real picture and
computer generated sometimes come to
generated looking materialistic then
pictures anyway take a look this
interior some type of office layout is
this a picture of course it's computer
generated how about this kitchen area
computer generated iCare iCare provides
you lots of some PDF file who are online
brochure or even printout brochure for
their products using computer graphics
ok not real product why they made this
kind of computer graphics
take a look same product IKEA product
for kitchen ok kitchen cabinets but IKEA
is kind of global company something for
Northern America something for Asia
market something for Europe European
style market some different process
different layouts a little bit different
things be to local environment what if
they have to take pictures for all of
them they have to remove and reinstall
take picture again and again but thanks
to computer graphics they made them
instantly
okay much cheaper than real picture so
take a look this guy I'm not sure he is
walking in there anyway he's in charge
of making these kind of real
visualization if you click this link I
just placed a reference for this one
okay in the visual news website take a
look the image that I show you okay
okay 70 pipe by percenter like your
product photographs actually comes to
generated okay the chair I show you and
the reason why they use this kind of
come to graphics and so on okay so in
this class like this guy we are going to
use Autodesk tizi sorry 3d max design
2015 because it's the latest version in
design model okay not 2016 or 17 2015
we're a Photoshop and video mentor II do
you know what is Nvidia the company name
and media is very very familiar to
gamers if you play in game you may know
and video NVIDIA GeForce have you heard
jeepers graphics card the GeForce
graphics card is one of the faster come
to graphic system and come to graphic
GPU engine GPU cardboard for computer
graphics okay anyway the company and
media both mental ray and mental ray is
a media software anyway anyway thanks to
mentor a and amount of well-defined
professionals material in Autodesk
material you can make very
photorealistic renderings and so on
take a look this one is actually not
100% photorealistic but anyway looking
photorealistic okay but actually I made
this image in three minutes in 3d mix
just three minutes so you need okay
place Selene DOE and cylinder extraction
in order to make this one is looking
glass plane and tourist not lights
render and you can get this kind of
image how about this one
last week I show you similar example
teapot with ceramic material flow plane
using wood floor crumbles and three
lights to white color lights actually
for three lights and one yellow color
lights okay but the dark black
background simply because the background
of this image just nothing just to
collect background that is why this one
reflects black okay so just a five
minute by minute for making this
visualization my point here is computer
graphics rendering technique really
advanced take a look this example
computer graphics on other come to
graphics even by using Sketchup
easy-to-use application Sketchup and the
beret you can make this kind of thin
okay that's my point very easy to use
but I show you actually very poor
realistic images is your photorealistic
visualization always top priority what I
mean is photorealistic rendering is
always your top priority my answer is of
course no okay your idea from your brain
composed of your computer model
computational model 3d max file Sketchup
file Rhino file Revit file whatever it
is and then it's going to be visualized
lots of visualization so what should be
realistic
you'll sketch your 3d your picture your
animation sometimes they are visual
photorealistic but I told you there is
intermediate computer model so your
comfort another supposed to be realistic
in other words you should try your best
for making your computational model
intermediate model realistic not the
outputs
okay without this model directly from
your brain from your idea to these
outputs
very recursive very time consuming
tedious never-ending task you have to do
okay
your computational model is kind of very
realistic and well made your output
sometimes line during shaded sometimes
photorealistic rendering sometimes very
nice representation sometimes very
abstract lines truck-based images
sometimes flow plans and so on
okay semantic integrity that is that
thing the concept you have to be aware
of for your building model for your
computational model perón has your mini
world what is the world what is the
universe of this course
what is the UD your definition over your
word okay okay when you design your
building
think about your designing your home
your new house is there Star Wars
characters is there some some other
buildings is there some how can I say
some monsters in your universe of this
course of course not okay
your tip well define delivers first and
your object your over your interest
supposed to be same to your real-world
object okay this is semantic integrity
semantically same with your real-world
object you are pursuing in terms of your
mini world in terms of your university
of this course this university sorry not
university its universe okay
this universe doesn't need to be same to
real-world universe real-world universe
what is this what is that this
University this one contains anything
this one has
100% things we created what Mother
Nature also one part of it anyway well
defined your mini world your universe
that is the important thing you need to
take care of semantics this CAD model
looks very just line drawing and color
shade that's it but this one is
photorealistic which one is better in
terms of visualization this is looking
better but what if this one has any
related information but this one has
amount of information data on top of
this image or behind this image this one
has semantic integrity okay semantics
so photorealistic visualization is not
always the solution architectural
effective visualization which has mental
integrity is of importance that's the
topic that's the that's the thing I like
to emphasize ok
let's quickly review something about
rendering actually you have learned
rendering aspects before 3d
visualization by computers let's take a
look rendering is all about lights ok ok
take a look the series of very
simplified image how about this one is
this rendering is this rendering no why
why no this is rendering ok this is
rendering in Lion stroke style I told
you rendering what is rendering what is
what is the literal meaning of Brando if
you open dictionary and find out render
render means visual representation by
hand by some type of media whatever so
this is rendering but not photorealistic
it's lion stroke render how about this
one
colorful render
how about this shaded with shadow
casting how about this one entire thing
with texture map how about this one
ray-traced okay so something advanced
but anyway all of those visualizations
are rendering what a realistic is here
but anyway they are still effective
render okay line stroke render and so on
the right text here simply explains you
something about computer rendering
computer rendering three main things
lighting your object camera okay
lighting very important but sketchup
rhino3d max they have their own default
light but the port light is super low
quality that is why you need to place
your own light system because they have
much better quality anyway
you need to know something about light
also you have to know something about
camera it's exactly same to real word
the camera if you are very well known to
DSLR camera it's very good very
applicable to real camera object in 3d
max or some other tools camera is still
very important how about object of
course it's really critical your object
what is diffuse the surface color so
piece material as it seen by your eyes
okay
intensity texture map shadow casting
ambient occlusion lots of sub objects
some things you have to know reflection
refraction caustics lots of things you
need to know how many take a look this
one you have to know those technical
keywords for computer rendering but no
worries not that complicated even if
it's looking complicated if you
understood if you understand the
carnism nothing and another cool news is
this is something about query in
sketchup you have learned last year in
Monterey
there are amount of presets preset means
predefined material defined by whom
student no experts some professionals
already defined to provide you this kind
of thing you don't need to worry about
those things today's lab exercise you
will find out how it is easy to use and
powerful ok take a look this one
lighting source reflection but no
acoustics
this is caustics ok and take a look some
type of ambient occlusion this is ray
tracing ok
there is a ray okay ray penetrating this
glass make another lighting effect like
this reflection from this green color
but there is no Korean effect this is
not ray tracing okay this is Radio City
base there ray tracing technology
applied something like manta ray anyway
as a default we're gonna use manta ray
we use this one okay very powerful
preset renders and very powerful
Autodesk material that is what you're
gonna use today okay okay let's finish
the lecture and move to the lab exercise
installation and click preview
