all right thanks for being here nice to
be midway through Midway
I'll be talking about pragmatic
algorithm game algorithmic game theory
which is a talk I gave at the acmec
conference I adapted a little bit for
you guys but uh just a bit so so let me
start by saying what what algorithmic
game theory means particularly to that
Community
um so there was this famous book uh this
edited book called algorithmic game
theory that ended up uh being sort of an
early Point around which this field
gelled and it described itself as being
research it described this topic of
algorithmic Game Theory as being about
research at the interface of computer
science game theory and economic theory
largely motivated by the internet so if
you look at the kind of work that that
was proposed not just in that book but
in work that has called itself
algorithmic gain Theory afterwards
um it seems that this community is
particularly interested in the design of
new mechanisms particularly but not only
auctions and Market mechanisms trying to
analyze existing mechanisms and figure
out something about what they do
particularly prominent example is
sponsored search where the mechanism
kind of predates a formalized design
approach but then there's a question
about what what happens in it and
equilibrium computation which of course
is a kind of of both a very fundamental
computational problem and a kind of
Bedrock tool that you would want to use
in a lot of this kind of analysis
so typically this community has gone for
very general settings and attacked them
theoretically as indeed we're all kind
of familiar both in economics and
computer science
um and uh I think they've added a lot
over the traditional economic kinds of
analysis
um yielding um both impossibility and
optimality results which maybe aren't
that uh different from what economists
would expect to see the same kinds of
things economists have proven for years
but added to that kind of
um repertoire also that the perspective
of approximation and uh I I think really
kind of move the ball down the field a
bit from the perspective of
approximation showing you know for
example that they can achieve something
close to Optimal Revenue with a simple
mechanism or something like that
and so so broadly speaking this is what
I mean when I say algorithm and Game
Theory this kind of field
um mostly within CS but but very much in
communication with economics
um
unfortunately I think this field
struggles uh of course as any
theoretical discipline does
um with obtaining
um the same kinds of clean theoretical
results that address a complex and
realistic problems so there tends to be
this sort of boundary of analytic
tractability Beyond which it's it's hard
to go and this approximation framework
makes it possible maybe to go further
than one might expect but but
nevertheless there there sometimes is
this experience of hitting a wall and
going to uh to something more pregnant
more practical
so the perspective that I'm going to
Advocate today is what I'm calling a
pragmatic approach to algorithmic Game
Theory and what I want to argue uh you
know what I did argue to that Community
what I'm what I want to argue to those
of you here who see yourself as part of
that Community is that it's possible to
get more traction on realistic problems
that one should be interested in by
leveraging 100 or both of two kinds of
pragmatism and the first is to care
about getting good performance only on
problems of interest rather than in
relatively unconstrained settings so to
try to drill into much narrower and but
nevertheless useful categories of
problems
and the second is to
achieve success in statistical rather
than analytical terms and so so this
means to to adopt a kind of data-driven
approach in one's work where the
problems of Interest might be defined
implicitly by a data set that that gives
examples of the kinds of problems one
cares about and or there may be
data-driven measures of performance so
we might be scored on some kind of
average measure of performance over a
data set rather than simply
approving a theorem that says something
about how close to optimality we've come
um so all of this you can sort of see as
a sort of machine learning perspective
about how to do
um work at the boundary of economics and
community and computer science
so
um in this talk I'm going to talk about
work that I've done with collaborators
that attacks problems that are kind of
core algorithmic Game Theory problems
um in the sense that they're the same
problems that the algorithmic game
theory Community has been itself
interested in a more theoretical vein
but but that's pragmatic in both of
these ways and before launching in let
me just say the obvious that I I
certainly don't mean to give the
impression that I've invented the notion
of being pragmatic about algorithmic
Game Theory there are many others uh in
in this computer science economics
Community who do the same and indeed I
think one reason that I'm really happy
to be at this Workshop is I think that
most of you here seem to have this kind
of sensibility about the work that you
do so I hope that makes you a receptive
audience and probably the only way I
could really piss you off and lose you
would be if I gave you the impression
that I was the only one doing this so
let me let me reassure you that that's
not what I think
um so so in particular I'm going to talk
about three different lines of work uh
you can see them up at the Top If you
have good eyes
um the the first one I'll talk about is
repurposing uh radio spectrum via what's
called an incentive auction uh which is
something the FCC is in the progress of
doing as they do these kind of slides
along the way I'm just going to kind of
call out my collaborators so my PhD
student Alexandra frechette is my main
collaborator here and Frank Hunter
holder who's lingshu and Steve ramage
contributed in to some of the tools that
I used in this work
so you guys have probably heard about
the incentive auction but let me just
say just a little bit about it so the
FCC had this great idea of having an
auction that had something to do with
incentives well no that's not quite it
um but but the FCC
um
yeah what a great name right I don't
know but uh but but anyway that's what
they call it so what can I do about that
um the FC the FCC wants to basically
sell off radio spectrum to uh mobile
phone companies as they do
um the problem that they face is that
they've kind of already sold all of it
there just isn't really good radio
spectrum to sell anymore and people
still want to watch cat videos on their
phones while they're on the subway so so
we've got a problem and the solution to
this problem
um is to take radio spectrum that's
being used for something else and
repurpose it for use uh in uh in Mobile
phones because that's the use that
people now care about and in particular
it turns out that television you know
back in the day when when broadcast
television started up it got given
really awesome radio spectrum because
that it was kind of the the big game in
town and now broadcast television is not
that important to people people are much
more interested in in getting Television
over cable or satellite or you know even
over the Internet so so it seems like
maybe there's there's some economic
efficiency gains to be had here by by
taking back some of that spectrum and
and selling it off to uh to mobile phone
companies where it can be used more
productively of course the catch here is
it's not I'm not a lawyer I'm I don't
fully understand the legal side of these
things about whether this is necessary
or just a good idea but it's at the very
least a good idea not to just confiscate
this spectrum from the the television
stations and and give it back to to the
mobile phone companies in order to make
this all go down in a sensible way uh it
turns out that what one needs to do is
to buy the the radio spectrum back from
the television stations uh in order to
be able to then sell it off to the
mobile phone companies so this gives
rise to the question of how you would go
about doing that how are you going to
buy back
um the the right to broadcast from a
whole bunch of different television
stations all of which operate you know
at particular powers on particular
Channel bills in particular from
particular antennas in given regions of
the country in this crazy Patchwork all
over the United States and you know one
by one get different ones of them to
sell back their their right to broadcast
and somehow assemble this into something
that that a mobile phone company would
be interested in buying so so that's the
the kind of underlying optimization
problem that that is going to form the
allocation problem for for this
incentive option
so
um so I can tell you this this auction
is now approved and ready to go you can
see this is the report and order that
the Federal Communications Commission
um just put out uh announcing that this
was going to happen and giving some
details about how it's going to happen
uh you can see it was just a little over
a month ago that this happened so this
is a really current thing uh the the
reported order makes really entertaining
reading I recommend that you sit down
with it it's uh 488 pages long and it's
written almost entirely by lawyers so
um so I think it's great I mean you know
you here at a business school presumably
do this kind of thing all the time so
you know that should be fun for you
um but uh you know in case you're not
going to read it let me just tell you a
little bit about what it would say uh
yeah I can sort of put in one slide with
the 488 Pages safe from your point of
view as economists
um essentially there are going to be two
different auctions that will happen in a
linked way so there'll be a reverse
um or descending price auction for
broadcasters and in the reverse auction
essentially what's going to happen is
stations will be offered some very high
reserve price to stop being television
stations and instead to be people with
bags of money and they'll they'll say
yes I would take your large bag of money
in exchange for not being a television
station anymore and the FCC will look at
all of these offers to stop broadcasting
and and determine that it would be
possible to get rid of a whole bunch of
spectrum if that were true it would be
possible to take all of the TV stations
that go up to channel 52 and change that
to TV stations that only go up to
channel 30 and then they could take that
radio spectrum that was used for
channels 31 up to 52
except for channel 37 if you're one of
the people who understands how these
things work
um turns out there's something special
going on there radio telescopes need to
operate on channel 37.
um and uh and you take that big block
and then you can sell that off to the
cell phone companies because what cell
phones need is a big contiguous block of
spectrum they they can't operate on
little corners of spectrum in different
geographical regions so so then you do
that but then you've probably gotten too
many people who are willing to accept
big amounts of money so then you start
lowering the amount of money that you're
offering everybody and as the this
amount of money that you're offering
goes down at some point high value
participants might say I'm not so happy
anymore to accept your reduced amount of
money I would rather go back to being a
television station and they they would
go back on the air you'd you'd confirm
that it's still possible to put them
somewhere
and uh and you kind of keep doing this
until everybody uh you know either is is
being paid nothing or is indispensable
to you and can't be put back on the air
I'll show you that uh schematically in a
minute you know why why do you have to
go through the government to make this
happen
um the real reason is
um let's say I'm a television station
um in let's say right now I'm channel
13. so or let's make me a UHF station
and Sam Channel 15. um you know that's
not a piece of spectrum that's going to
get given to the radio uh to the uh the
telecoms but instead what could happen
is
um you could take this and take somebody
else who is in a useful piece of
spectrum and kind of stick him into my
spot on this ability to move around
stations uh is something that only the
government can do and fundamentally
that's needed to get big contiguous
blocks of usable Spectrum so so the
government is telling the top the TV
stations you know this is a one-time
chance for you to participate in this
auction and I think that's a pretty
plausible thing to say because this
repacking is uh you know it really has
to happen on a national scale to be
useful
um and you know the government only can
do this you know they're going to cause
slightly different interference on the
stations that get repacked they can only
do this because they've been given
Authority by a law so this can't really
happen just just on the side
um so this is the reverse auction the
forward auction is then taking this
stuff and selling it off to the um to
the cell phone companies so so here
we're going to have different licenses
uh in every region and the prices for
these licenses are going to increase
until
um uh supply and demand meet so you're
going to have just a much more
straightforward kind of ascending
auction
this is not absolutely trivial but this
is kind of the sort of thing that the
FCC has been doing for a long time
um all right so so we have this reverse
auction we have a forward auction and
then we have we have some kind of link
between them uh so we have we have some
amount of Revenue that we need to
achieve to to make everybody happy about
what what just happened and if that
hasn't happened then basically we
um we decided that we were trying to
clear too much spectrum and so then we
we reduce the amount of spectrum that
we're trying to clear and that will have
the effect of both lowering the prices
that we have to pay because we have to
buy out fewer TVs stations and
increasing the the per unit prices that
we will end up charging telecoms because
the supply will have gotten scarcer and
so the prices will continue to rise and
so so essentially what we'll do is we'll
we'll just change the amount of spectrum
that we have to clear and then keep
running the auction you might notice
that these two prices are not directly
related to each other right so so this
is not a double-sided Market
um or if it's a double-sided Market it's
very indirectly a double-sided Market
because kind of what's happening is the
government is you know doing this one
auction with everybody and getting all
these goods and then kind of glomming
them together and turning them into
something else and selling them to
somebody else so the government gets to
keep whatever the difference is and they
the Congressional budget office has
projected that that difference is 25
billion dollars
so so the government's take is is a
bunch of money
so let me tell you a little bit more
about the reverse auction which is going
to be my focus I found in talking to
people that there seems to be a lot of
misunderstanding about how this auction
works and so
um maybe you guys all understand it but
I made a very sophisticated PowerPoint
animation to explain how this works
and and I say this both jokingly and not
um I say it jokingly in the sense that
when you see it you're going to be
disappointed but but I say it seriously
in the sense that it took me forever to
make
this so let's see
um so so it turns out that rather than
talking about uh buying our television
stations which turns out for various
reasons to be a little hard to think
about
um abstractly I'm going to switch to a
problem that I think you have more
experience with which is the problem of
uh Airline over booking right so so you
go to the uh your airline of choice and
they say you know sorry remember that
ticket we sold you for the flight that
you're on well it doesn't really
correspond to a seat on our plane
um in fact you know it turns out there's
this law that for some reason we can
sell you things that don't exist and if
you don't show up for the flight that we
keep your money but if we don't have a
seat for you that's just too bad for you
and now we're gonna see what happens so
so let's think about the part of what
happens and and in fact what really
happens is they just screw you in your
strand in Chicago but let's imagine
something slightly more reasonable that
involves an auction so so the way this
is going to work is uh and and for
reasons that have to do with this FCC
action I'm I'm going to ask that
passengers either fly in the cabin
they're assigned to or they have to give
up their seat I'm not going to allow
passengers in first class to move to
economy class I'll explain afterwards
why that's important
so the feasibility constraint that I'm
going to have as an airline is that the
number of passengers in each cabin is
less than or equal to the number of
seats I have because I can't fly with
people standing up
um someday they'll do that but not yet
um and I'll use a descending clock
auction to set compensations and the way
to think about this is I start with a
plan that's big enough to hold everybody
so so these dots which I individually
placed with my mouse are the people and
this is my plan right so this by analogy
is the current state of affairs with
with television stations they're all
kind of all the television stations have
somewhere to broadcast
the problem is we're going to get rid of
a bunch of the spots right we're gonna
this is clearing a bunch of spectrum
we're going to lose a bunch of the seats
and now we have people without seats
um and and this is where the airline
decides hey we could send a smaller plan
and save ourselves some money
so uh the airline offers compensation so
we say to everybody we'll give you a
thousand dollars if um
uh if you just elect not to fly and
we'll we'll fly you tomorrow morning and
everybody gets to make a choice about
whether that sounds good to them or not
and so some people say no I'm going to
hold on to my seat I'm not going to take
your thousand dollars and they're
they're on the plane and some people say
a thousand dollars would be great why
not I'll do it and and they kind of go
off to the side here and and so here's
our state of affairs with a thousand
dollars the thing to notice now is that
I've got a lot of empty seats so as an
airline I think Hmm these guys you know
don't don't seem to Value money all that
highly I made a bit of a mistake
offering them a thousand dollars so let
me let me change my offer so you say to
everybody remember what that thing I
said about a thousand dollars really I
was lying it's only eight hundred
dollars how do you feel about that
and uh and some of them say well you
know turns out I only did it because you
said a thousand dollars in fact I want
to go back on your stupid plane
and uh and so now some of them move back
and and in fact In First Class
um let's say they all move back so so
what's going to happen in this auction
then is these guys now these blue dots
have nowhere they can go on the plane
because I'm not going to let them go to
a different class and so that means
they've accepted an offer for eight
hundred dollars but I can't make them
any subsequent offers because I can't
back that offer up with anything if I
was to offer them 700 and they said I
won't take your offer I would be in the
embarrassing situation of not being able
to do anything so so I have to freeze
them at the last offer they accepted
these other guys though I can still do
without so for them I lowered the price
and then some of them move back and then
I lower the price again and then some of
them move back and until something
freezes again and now the green guys are
frozen because again there are no spots
for them so I freeze them at a different
price the blue guys are just gluttons
for punishment that's why they're flying
an economy class so we just keep on
hitting them with lower and lower prices
and some of them move back like the
suckers they are they'll even take 300
and eventually two hundred dollars a
couple of them move back and these guys
get Frozen and so so this is how the
auction works so basically we're going
to keep on
lowering prices on people as long as
it's possible to accommodate them back
where they were before and then
basically the the willingness of other
people to eventually
um participate in the auction or quit is
what's going to drive the prices for you
okay so so what does this correspond to
in reality you might think this
corresponds to sort of good spectrum and
medium spectrum and bad Spectrum but
that's that's really not true what I
want this instead to correspond to is
different places so there's nothing
special about first class you know it
might have been the first class got a
worse price than business glass what's
really special is that you can only go
back to the place that you originally
were and and that they're just different
constraints in different places so let's
say first class was really New York
economy class sorry guys it's the
Midwest
um and uh and so we just had different
feasibility constraints in different
places right so so it might be that New
York kind of walks up early because
there are a lot of constraints in the
New York Region where prices are just
falling and falling in Chicago because
you have lots of open space out here
um now now here's the the thing about
the real problem the feasibility
constraints in fact are a crazy jumbled
mess right so so this is a picture of
the feasibility constraints it might be
a picture made by Nick actually I'm not
sure did you make this picture
thanks for the picture Nick I never
thanked you properly I want to take this
opportunity
um so yeah okay that that was special
okay so so this is uh this is a
visualization of the real constraint
graph and and what you can see from this
is just kind of that it sucks right
there's just lots of lines everywhere
um but but in particular what you can
sort of Imagine from this picture is you
know every dot is a station right and a
line is these two stations somehow
constrain each other on what what
channels they're allowed to be on
um and and because there's just not a
lot of nice kind of symmetric cliques in
this graph everything has just got weird
stuff hanging off the side and that
means that it then my nice story about
kind of everyone in economy class is the
same and everyone in business class is
the same is not going to be true in this
graph the question of whether you can
personally go back is going to be a a
personalized choice for everybody
the point means there exists a
constraint between those two stations
that either they can't be on the same
channel they can't be on adjacent
channels they can't be on certain same
or adjacent channels but they're allowed
to be on other ones or some combination
of those sorts of constraints
um and and there are many channels so so
you know typically we're not going to
clear all the Spectrum so is there any
two channels linked by an edge can still
both be accommodated but you know
eventually they're going to start to
constrain each other as I reduce the set
of available channels
so so here's another visualization of
this graph which uh is maybe a little
bit easier to think about because
this one has the advantage that it looks
like the United States but the
disadvantage that you can't see just how
awful the New York Region really is
um it's really awful it has some nodes
with degrees above 200 so so there's
some really really densely connected
parts of this graph
um this just sort of blows it out in a
way that gives you a better sense of the
connectivity of the graph
um so so there's this underlying
computational problem if I want to do
this kind of Airline algorithm the way I
showed it to you this descending clock
auction which is asking for a given set
of people that I think are going to
participate in the auction that have
currently accepted going off air and
another set of people that I have to
repack because they've exited the
auction or they never participated is it
possible for me to also not take you for
every given person is it possible for me
to put you back on the air and somehow
readjust the stations I give to
everybody so the the whole thing works
and if so I get to lower your price and
if not then you're Frozen and I have to
take the last price you accepted in a
sense you're not participating in the
auction anymore
and and so this is this computational
problem that I'm going to have to answer
every time I want to consider lowering a
price for every single station so I'm
going to have to do this you know kind
of on the order of 2000 times every time
I take the clock
and uh you know bad news this is the
part where computer scientists come and
bum you out because uh this is an NP
complete problem
um which the theorists will tell you
means that you should go shoot yourself
in the corner because nothing can be
dealt with Chicago somebody can shoot
you for you you don't have to do it
yourself
um but you should be very sad uh the
pragmatic truth is just because the
problem is NP complete doesn't mean you
can never solve it it just means you
can't be confident that you can always
solve it so so it turns out there are a
whole kind of research communities
within CS about finding practical ways
of solving NP complete problems and they
work all the time you know Google
wouldn't be making a self-driving car if
it weren't possible to solve NP complete
problems with decent reliability all the
time
um you just can't do it absolutely all
the time that's why the car will
sometimes crash
sorry
or something
um
so uh so so here we've got a graph graph
coloring problem with 130 000 um
pairwise relationships between stations
something on the order of a couple of
million uh actual constraints which uh
speak about individual channels
um and the FCC was initially pretty
skeptical about whether this problem
could be solved at a national scale and
they were doing a bunch of pretty hacky
things to try to make the problem
smaller
um in the end uh we're solving this
problem
um exactly and at a national scale using
some tools from empirical algorithmic so
I'll tell you a little bit about how
we're doing that basically the the bunch
of tricks that we've got are to use a
satin coding automatic algorithm
configuration and algorithm portfolio so
I'll tell you kind of a slide about what
each of those things is so okay
um so so what do we do with this thing
um well how many of you know what
propositional satisfiability is
hooray for you okay you guys can get a
coffee I mean they spend like 30 seconds
telling the rest of you what
propositional satisfiability is this is
this is one of the awesome problems in
computer science right this is uh this
is part of the bread and butter of
computer science this is like the you
know Corno
whatever it is Chrono something
something what is that what is it is it
it's like Chrono competition or
something yeah that's why I'm a computer
scientist anyway
um so yeah please edit that part out of
the video we don't know about going on
Milton Friedman would be so unimpressed
with me
um
okay so so basically satisfiability is
what is actually the first problem that
was shown to be NP completers and the
the first little kind of set of problems
and uh it's really easy to think about
because it's so simple and that means
that there are some really powerful
algorithms that work with it because the
the problem itself is so simple that you
can really wrestle with it in great
detail so it's sort of a pure
combinatorial problem it says I've got a
set of variables and each variable can
be true or false then I can make
literals which are the variables that
either the variables themselves or the
negations of the variables I can make
Clauses which are disjunctions of
literals so a clause is something like a
or b or not C right so it's it's a
disjunction of either variables or
negated variables and then I make a
formula which is a conjunction of
Clauses so I end up with something that
looks like a or b or not C and D or e or
not a so I make this whole string of
propositional variables connected with
answers or knots in this particular way
and the question that I then ask is is
there some way of assigning values to
each variable from true or false that
make this whole logic formula evaluate
to true
and you know your first impulse might be
well sure that sounds really easy you
know I just I can just come up with true
and false values and then I I know I
know all about logic right I know how to
evaluate this thing and figure out
whether it's true or false and indeed
it's very easy to to come up with some
assignment of uh true and false values
to all the variables look at it in the
formula figure out if it's true or false
but then you might notice well if I've
got n variables there are two to the N
assignments of of truth values to those
variables and I could try each of them
and test it but is there some more
principled way of figuring out which of
those two to the end things I have to
try or do I have to do all of them well
if you can answer that question then
there's a million dollars waiting for
you at the clay Mathematics Institute
because that would involve answering the
question of whether p is equal to NP and
so we don't know but so far we haven't
found a way so so far more or less you
have to try everything
so this is sort of the combinatory the
the combination lock of combinatorial
problems you just sort of have to to
grind through everything or sort of in
the worst case it seems like you have to
but in practice maybe there's a lot of
structure in your problem right if I
gave you something like
um a or not a and all kinds of other
stuff maybe you could look at that and
say well that's got a contradiction in
it that first Clause simply can't be
satisfied so I don't need to grind
through all the other stuff I can just
spot that contradiction that's a very
simple example of the fact that you
don't always have to grind through
everything and and there are much richer
reasons why you might not have to grind
through everything so that that's this
kind of empirical algorithms framework
you can't do it for for the worst case
input but you can do it for everything
else
so how do we formulate this FTC problem
as a sad problem
um I'll just do this kind of at a high
level but basically we say every station
has to broadcast on one of its allowable
channels that gives me a constraint that
looks like this
um so so one of these at least one of
these variables has to be set to true
the variable which says this day
broadcast on this channel
um so the disjunction of all these
variables has to be true which means at
least one of them has to be true each
station only gets to broadcast on one
channel
um that means and the negation of each
pair of values that station could take
uh disjoint so so at least one of them
has to be false at least one of every
pair has to be false so far those two
things just say every station gets one
channel that doesn't seem like I've done
something very complicated yet
um but the interference thing is the
hard part so then I take all of these
pairwise interference constraints and I
I throw them all in so I say you can't
be on Channel 17 while I'm on channel
18. and I do that two and a half million
times for all of the pairwise
interference constraints and I just
throw them all in there too and then I
give this thing to a SAT solver with it
all of its Glory of tens of thousands of
variables and two and a half million
constraints and
it turns out as a side note that most of
the Clauses have only two variables in
them you'll notice only this first kind
of clause that I gave at the top has
more than two variables in them and
that's a really powerful thing for a SAT
solver because when one of the variable
when one of the literals gets set to
false I can infer that the second one
has to get set to true or the whole
thing's not going to work and that's
that's how I can see the contradiction
doesn't work because if one of them gets
said to false the other one uh
actually the contribution does work
doesn't it
never mind anyway
um
other things don't work
um yeah maybe I don't have a one
variable example but uh but anyway when
one of these things gets set to false
the other one has to be true and then I
know how this thing gets set and it
might appear in other formulas and so
then I can plug in its values in those
other formulas and that can cause other
things to get forced and I can get these
chains in something that's called Unit
propagation where I go grinding through
without having to do search setting all
kinds of variables and that's kind of a
powerful thing so so basically we get
this crazy thing you might think on the
face of it it's so ridiculously big
right I've got like tens of thousands of
variables and in the worst case I think
this thing is exponential in the number
of variables so how could this possibly
work
um the trick we're going to use is
something that my research group has
been working on pretty hard for about a
decade which is called algorithm
configuration and the idea is that
um it it turns out the heuristic
algorithms which is what we're talking
about here algorithms that that don't
come with a worst case performance
guarantee but that sort of embody things
that seem like they should be good ideas
which is what a heuristic is
um tend to have a lot of parameters as
you're building this kind of algorithm
you tend to face a choice about you know
how much pre-processing should I do
should I Branch this way or that way
which variable should I consider first
and the authors of these these
algorithms can and typically do expose
those choices to the end user as
parameters so they can be changed at
runtime so something that you might do
if you know that you have a given
distribution of problems that you need
to attack is to set those parameters in
a way that works particularly well for
your problem so that you effectively
custom design an algorithm that will
work well just for you and so so that
seems good except if you've got
something like 100 parameters you know
setting these things by hand by
repeatedly running the algorithm and
having it take many hours and then
seeing how it did is a pretty hard thing
to do so we've been working on what we
call Meta algorithms algorithms that
take other algorithms as input run those
other algorithms many times essentially
do a statistical experiment design on
these algorithms figure out kind of
what's going on with them and uh and
explore the space and eventually find
some parameter configuration that works
really well you might be skeptical that
such a thing could be make made
practical it's it's beyond the scope of
this talk to say much about how that
works so I'll say one thing but suffice
it to say that this really does work
pretty well
um
so kind of intuitively how do we do it
um Let me give the example of a single
parameter which is small enough that I
can draw it on the board here so so
let's say I have a parameter X which
affects the performance of my algorithm
and I have a parameter y that I want to
minimize think of why as something like
the log of runtime so I'm trying to make
an algorithm that that whose runtime is
minimized on the same instances so I'm
running this over and over again on the
same problems
um so let's let's imagine that this red
line in the graph here is the true
performance of the algorithm as a
function of x
um and of course I don't know that if I
knew that I would just minimize that but
I don't get to ever observe that what I
get to do is run the algorithm at
particular points and observe its run
time at that point so these blue circles
are places where I actually observed the
runtime of the algorithm
um then what I do is I fit a a
regression model to all of this I use a
fancy kind of non-parametric regression
in this case I'm using something called
gaussian process regression the
advantage of gaussian processes is they
give me uncertainty estimates well
they're non-parametric so they're
arbitrarily Wiggly which is important to
me and they give me uncertainty
estimates which are small at points that
I've observed because I I know what's
going on there and they get bigger as I
get away from points that I observe so
so these um these gray ellipses are the
uncertainty estimates at every point and
so what you'll see is you know right at
the Blue Points the uncertainty
estimates are small and as they get away
they're big and then what I do is I try
to find a point that looks like would be
good to evaluate a point that I haven't
seen yet that looks like it might be
better than anything that I've seen
before and what would it take to maybe
be better
you want to both be pretty low on the
line and also have pretty high
uncertainty and so so that Criterion is
called expected Improvement what's the
what's the amount of improvement that I
could gain conditional on being better
than the point that I've got now
um so the green line that I'm showing
you is a scaled version of expected
Improvement on this line and you can see
a good place to evaluate would be right
here according to the line
and because I have high uncertainty at
that point because these two points are
pretty far apart and also the line is
pretty small so here's a point that kind
of makes a good trade-off between the
height of the line and the amount of
uncertainty so I would then do another
experiment right there and I would learn
that in fact it's not as good as the as
the point to its left but then I would
update my uncertainty estimates that I'd
have another point and then I would end
up my second choice would be to go here
which really is a minimum or close to a
minimum and I learned something good and
I kind of keep going so so that's how
this sort of uh search Guided by a
learned model in real time kind of can
work so so this is uh this thing we have
called sequential model based algorithm
configuration or smack that's how it
works
okay so so that that's that's the idea
of algorithm configuration and then I
have the idea of making an algorithm
portfolio which essentially says
different solvers have different areas
of strength and weakness so why should I
have to commit just like a financial
portfolio why should I buy only one
stock why should I have only one
algorithm in my back pocket why not have
access to many uncorrelated algorithms
and thereby leverage the fact that that
the men of the the average of men's is
different than the the men of the
average
um
so uh so basically we leveraged this
idea too we built something called
sadzilla which is a portfolio of sat
solvers this is a pictorial
representation of what it does
um and uh
it's destroying Tokyo in this picture
and uh basically this has become just
kind of a dominantly successful strategy
in the sap Community whatever that is
um so so basically we took all of these
things together and and we built a uh a
SAT solver for the fcc's problem so so
I'm going to kind of conclude here by
showing you experimentally what did this
do on the fcc's problem and uh here's uh
so I need to show you uh how this graph
works so this is uh the run time so
basically I'm given some some
distribution of instances that that
arose in simulations of the auction that
really you know to our best knowledge
reflect what might happen in the fcc's
auction and I've got
um problems of up to
1133 stations
um which means tens of thousands of
variables in the Statin coding on the
full USA interference graph
um so I take those problems and then I
run various sat solvers on them so in
the upper left-hand Corner these are the
names of different and sat solvers that
I ran and I'm showing you a cumulative
density function here which says the
probability of the basically the
fraction of instances that got solved
within every amount of time so looking
for example at this blue line which is a
solver called clasp you know after uh 10
to the zero seconds after one second and
it solved nothing after about two
seconds it was starting to solve things
after 10 seconds it solved a little bit
more than 10 percent of the instances
and and so on and then we ran it for
five minutes we ran everything for five
minutes so after five minutes we just
stopped them because you know we're not
made of time here we have to stop it at
some point and uh and you see that the
best of the solvers got maybe 45 percent
of the instances solved which is already
kind of good I mean something I should
point out is that if you don't solve
something you can just call it
impossible you can just freeze that
station and that basically costs you
money but but that's okay right there's
nothing that goes wrong from an
incentive point of view if somebody gets
frozen early you just pay them too much
and as a computer scientist there's
something really beautiful about that
because there's a trade-off between how
well you can solve the problem and how
much you have to pay people so you can
really go to the FCC and say if I can
give you one percent you know better sat
solving ability I'm going to save you
100 million dollars and you know
normally in the sac Community you don't
get to say things like that so that's
pretty cool
normally you can say if I can you know
do one percent better I can write a
paper in the South Community okay so so
basically we added a specially
configured version of clasp uh we built
a specially configured version of clasp
why do we pick class which looks like
the worst thing here basically because
it was designed by its authors to expose
a lot of parameters so it was designed
to work really well with this
configuration kind of approach and so
it's really suited to this
um and and we built something that
worked dramatically better
um so this is now solving about 75
percent of the instances within five
minutes and so that's already looking
pretty good we then
um basically did both a bunch of
engineering and added some kind of
portfolio ideas to this and built
something that we call sat FC which for
feasibility checking which is this red
line and this is the thing that that
we've made available to the FCC
um and and you can see this is
stochastically dominating everything
else by by pretty healthy down partly
just by by dealing with very easy
instances very quickly there are a lot
of very easy instances
um but we're now solving
um just about everything all but about
two percent of the instances uh within
an eight hour cutoff
um and so so this already gives you some
sense that there's there's only so much
to be gained by parallelization here
there are only 2 000 stations that need
to be checked around
um so what does this look like most of
the problems were satisfiable the blue
bars here are points where it was
satisfiable the red bars are points
where it was unsat the gray bars are
points where we timed down and didn't
know and you can see we timed out in
about one percent of the instances
um so this is the last slide that I'll
give you
um so far I've talked about a situation
where we have people either going off
the air or staying on the air in
practice those of you who are old enough
to remember televisions as compared to
computers and particularly televisions
that you actually accessed on the air
might be aware of the fact that there's
something called UHF and VHF there are
different kinds of Television spectrum
and you might remember that VHF is kind
of bad relative to UHF right it's sort
of a grainier picture it's not quite as
good and so it is now we really have
both of those kinds of spectrum UHF is
the stuff that we actually want to sell
to the telecoms that's more appropriate
for them so one thing that we might be
able to do is say
um the UHF stations could instead of
going off the air maybe we should pay
them a lower amount to accept a lower
quality good to accept VHF Spectrum
instead of UHF spectrum and uh and and
then you know that's another way of
freeing up UHF Spectrum so maybe we
should give them these multiple options
this is tricky and you know then of
course I can do cascading things like I
can buy out a VHF station thereby making
some VHF Spectrum available and then I
can get a UHF guy to move into that and
if those two moves are cheaper than
getting that one guy to go off air maybe
that's a better thing to do so so we
what we and in fact there's not just VHF
but there's upper VHF and lower VHF
which are themselves different so
there's really three bands of spectrum
to care about
um
so it the problem is doing a design on
this kind of space involves multi-minded
bidders it involves bidders who have
values for now multiple things rather
than just going off air and and that
makes the auction design much more
complex because as all of us know here
auction design for multi-minded bidders
is is much uh more difficult to think
about than for single-minded bidders
except in this kind of Glorious Point
case of vcg so
um so this has been an area of active
study for the the groups working with
the FCC right now there are a whole
variety of different proposals on the
table
um I I'm happy to kind of talk to you
about some of the ideas here I've in the
end ended up proposing something which
I'm kind of excited about but I'm out of
time now so I'm not going to tell you
now what that is
um
instead
I will just conclude if my computer
worked the way I thought it did I'll
just conclude here so uh so there we go
so I guess I've told you about uh the
way the FCC incentive action works if
you're interested uh let me say sort of
one sentence about what these other
things are and I'm happy to talk with
you about them on the coffee break
um so one of them is this idea of what I
call computational mechanism analysis
which basically means using computers to
analyze existing mechanisms by solving
exactly for their equilibria on samples
from evaluation distribution of Interest
so we can think about something like
sponsored search auctions and ask
um you know how efficient is some given
mechanism or how much revenue would it
give me on expectation given different
settings of a reserve price parameter or
something like that so that's what I
call computational mechanism analysis it
basically works on the fact that that
they're now as of maybe five years ago
exists some really powerful techniques
for finding the exact equilibria of
compactly represented games so that
might be a technology that would be
interested think to some of you so I
just want to throw that out there the
last thing is about a kind of sabbatical
project that I worked on in Uganda for
building a cell phone based mobile
market for agricultural Commodities
allowing subsistence Farmers to sell
Surplus produce to traders in the cities
using a kind of Craigslist that runs
over SMS which is effectively a kind of
double auction so if you're curious
about the application of economic theory
to development problems I'm happy to
talk about that too so thanks for your
attention and let's all have lunch
cheers
