welcome to learn computer science
online.com and in this video we are
going to discuss what is a database
management system in simple terms the
database management system is a software
application used to create manage and
administer the databases the database
management system is commonly
abbreviated as DBMS some of the most
commonly used database management
systems include mysql oracle microsoft
SQL server and there are many such
popular DBMS software available in the
market in order to understand the
database management system we need to
first understand the meaning of terms
data and the database let us first
discuss what is data the data is the
most important element of any DBMS and
therefore it is important to understand
the meaning of term data the term data
in the context of DBMS indicates any
facts figures observations images or any
such similar things that can be recorded
and then digitally processed the data
must be recordable so that the raw data
can be processed with the help of a
computer system and the data processing
software let us consider one example of
data for a employee database the data
pertaining to an employee might include
name date of birth address designation
salary and so on let us now discuss the
meaning of term database the database in
simple terms is the organized collection
of interrelated data that can be
efficiently stored access to manipulated
the database offers many advantages and
the most efficient way of storing and
organizing the data the database is an
important element of most software
applications designed to store access
and process the data with the help of
any DBMS software application let us now
discuss what is a database management
system
the term DBMS stands for database
management system which is a software
designed to perform various database
operations the database operations
performed by the DBMS includes creating
new databases administering managing and
manipulating the databases the database
manipulation operations includes
creating new database modifying the
tables adding and deleting the data in
the table and other such user specified
database operations the DBMS internally
might consist of group of programs each
of these program performs a different
task related to the database management
some of the most commonly used DBMS
includes MySQL extensively used for web
applications oracle microsoft SQL server
IBM db2 Microsoft Access
mariya DB MongoDB Post get SQL and there
are many more DBMS available in the
market the DBMS also provides the
necessary tools required for the design
and the development of databases the
database management system is a vital
component of most of the software
applications whether you are working on
an enterprise software development
project or you may be developing a small
website the database design and
development skills are needed in almost
all software applications and therefore
the DBMS knowledge is important for
programmers and software developers the
database management system internally
makes use of database query language
such as SQL the SQL stands for
structured query language the SQL is
standard database query language
supported by almost all DBMS based on
the relational model it is a database
query language SQL used by the software
applications to communicate with the
database management system the DBMS in
turn communicates with the database and
performs the desired database operation
the database is managed by the DBMS
which actually stores the data the
software professionals with DBMS skills
are the highest paid professionals in
the job market that brings us to the end
of this tutorial and in this tutorial we
have discussed what is a database
management system if you have liked this
video then please give us a thumbs up
and consider subscribing to this channel
please visit our website learn computer
science online.com
to learn computer science online thanks
for watching and I will see you soon
with another computer science tutorial
[Music]
