hello everyone and welcome back to AWS
simplified today I want to talk to you
about software architecture diagrams and
some tools you can use to make your life
a little easier when you need to create
them so if you're a developer an
engineer or a solution architect it's
absolutely critical that you use
architecture diagrams to convey how a
system works so there's a lot of options
out there ranging from Microsoft Visio
OmniGraffle lucidchart
and I'm sure many many others that I
probably haven't heard of so I've tried
a handful of these in the past but what
I was really looking for was something
that was free easy to use could sync
across devices supported collaboration
and natively had access to AWS icon
packs and if you know anything about me
I'm constantly using AWS technologies
putting together AWS architecture
diagrams so I don't want to go and hunt
down icon packs to use them with
whatever software I'm using so as of now
I've only found one that I was happy
with that satisfied these criteria and
that is what I'm currently showing you
now and it's called draw IO so drop at
IO is pretty straightforward to use it
supports all your basic shapes arrows
layers connections text boxes and on and
on and on so my absolute favorite part
of this tool is that it's available in
any browser and does not require a local
installation so that means you can
access it from literally anything that
can run Chrome Firefox or any other
Internet browser some of the nice
features that are particularly important
to me is the fact that by default that
gives you access to AWS service icons
right out of the box so no more hunting
down icon packs and installing them on
your local machine they'll all be there
for you automatically another nice thing
about it is that it allows you to select
from a vast amount of templates
including flow diagrams UML diagrams
Gantt charts Venn diagrams and many many
more so as we can see here on the
website as I'm scrolling down they
provide you with a ton of examples and
depending on your artistic or design
abilities your results may come out
looking better or worse than what they
have on display here so here I am
putting together an architecture diagram
for a pet project using the draw die
tool so clearly I don't have the
artistic touch so my diagram looks a
little basic but with some extra effort
you can make it look just as appealing
as some of the examples on the draw de
IO website so I'm making use of the AWS
icon packs here and that comes by
default as I've mentioned previously so
if you're looking for an architecture or
flow diagram software that's free easy
to use and supports collaboration Trotta
io is definitely something that you
should check out so I hope you enjoyed
today's video and if you did make sure
to give it a thumbs up and hit that
subscribe button below so you don't miss
out on next week's thanks so much folks
and I'll see you next time
