so my name is Sevilla I'm the head of
the human-computer interaction study
program Italian University and together
here is also my colleague Sonya who will
do the introduction for interaction
design and also Andreas so both of them
are managing the interaction design
master's program and also our students
gabriela Inchon who will give you a
little brief personal introduction about
their study experience
ok so I'll try to share my screen now
and we'll go through the through the
presentation so I hope everything works
nicely I'll try to go fullscreen so that
everyone can see ok so I hope that you
can see the slides if not please let me
know but I really hope everything is
working and briefly to introduce the HCI
study program to you so in the
human-computer interaction study program
will emphasize technology for the
benefit of people that's our kind of
tagline that's our model and that's
that's how we try to also approach
things on a day to day basis and what
are we about we focus on three main
things our master's program is very much
research driven it's informed by our
latest state-of-the-art research that we
do within our group and that's that's
why I also most of our teachings most of
the also the lectures most of the
classes that were organized most of the
material that we share with our students
is not from the book it's from our
ongoing state-of-the-art research that's
something you cannot kind of go to a
library and read about that's something
that we share with you on our fresh
experience we focus on new and emerging
technology so we'd like to think of
ourselves as working on things that will
only become commercially available or
mainstream in five to ten years so
that's also kind of
of the our focus areas that's what we
have tried to do to play with
technologies that will only go
mainstream in the future and we're also
very much theory based and reflective
which again I guess feeds back to this
research driven approach so most of the
discourse that we have in the various
sessions in the various modules is based
on theory we want to engage in hands-on
activities in the design process we'd
like to be very much reflective and
critical about what we do and how we put
together and what values we use so I
think it kind of these three things
these three facets permit very much what
we do in the program if we look into the
background of the students that you
might eventually encounter in the
program then it's a very diverse because
the the field of HCI is also very
diverse so I try to point out four main
areas of where people come from to study
with us it's mainly computer science
design psychology and anthropology but
they're also kind of surrounding
disciplines such as economics and human
factors sociology language semiotics
engineering so it's a very mixed crowd
of people some with more engineering or
more technical background some more the
more artistically design-based
background some from social behavior
scientists so different understandings
different schools of thought different
approaches to design research and
technical foundation and we put all of
you on all of them together to make cool
stuff happen let's see
oops sorry so how our our studies
organize how would they go about
approaching things well we go through
several stages of theory or several
different types of activities from
emphasizing and researching to defining
the problem statement through
constraints and guidelines and then
ideation and brainstorming and then
modeling and prototyping testing and
evaluating finally publishing and
producing so
in the course of the study she would
cover the whole range from from
contextual acquiring and background
research to creating or defining the
design challenge or the problem
statement and finding solutions
exploring alternatives how to implement
things and then evaluating with users
assessing and finally producing the
final outcome the course overall the
program is is a two-year program four
semesters and this is how it's mainly
structured in the main category so if
some of you have already looked into the
more formal program description then you
might see that we start with
university-wide courses which is like
confrontation and the course that we
have there is them is the mmm
interdisciplinary course that we run
throughout the university so all you can
interact with people from all sorts of
backgrounds and programs from out the
university and then there's a set of
harmonization courses so depending on
which background you come from either
design or technical background or maybe
social behavioral sciences we will look
into what skills you're missing either
design or programming development or
both and then you get the chance to get
those skills and also there's an
intensive foundations section which
teaches you a lot about the theoretical
landscape of HCI the different research
methods that we use and how to go
putting together your initial research
proposal for your masterpiece
then there's a set of core courses and
then to selection modules either on
shaping experiences or in shaping
Society depending on which way you want
to go either
focusing or the micro or the macro level
of designing interactions and then
there's training either through
internship or training abroad and a set
of electives that where you can choose
from a set of different courses that we
offer to kind of create your own a
unique profile and path and then finally
we wrap off the course with a master
thesis project which is kind of project
you work on on a selected topic with
your supervisor to build very nuanced
and detailed expertise on a certain area
that of your interest so on the next
slide assignment it opens you will see
the breakdown of the different courses
throughout throughout the semesters so
like I mentioned the program is a four
semester long two year course in the
first semester we start with this
harmonization or we call them up to kind
of getting your skills up to date
basically courses then there's a set of
foundational courses which lasts for the
first year
core courses are the core courses to the
HCI curriculum mainly focusing on kind
of the foundations of HCI and also this
shaping experiences shaping Society
module which is kind of you can choose
which path you want to go through in the
second semester II also take this
university-wide courses then the third
semester is what we call our mobility
window so it's either you take a set of
selective's or you actually can choose
to go abroad on an Erasmus exchange to
study in a different University in a
different country and the fourth
semester is actually devoted to the
masterpiece so this is roughly how you
your studies could pan out over the four
semesters and you can see here a more
detailed view of how these courses are
organized similar to what I was showing
to you before so the Foundation's
organization shaping experiences anxiety
electives that you can take in the first
semester in the second semester will
mainly focus on an integrated project
which is a very hands-on activity which
where you go exactly through this
process of coming up with a design
challenge or researching the background
and then finishing off with a working
prototype that has been thoroughly
tested with users
finally in the first semester you go for
this kind of studies abroad or
internship in a company free electives
and then you finish up with the master
thesis okay so to tell you more about
the mast it is because that's again
related to this research driven part
of our studies we try to go for either
applied or basic research so you can do
a hands-on project developing or
designing something or you can actually
go for basic research and go maybe in
more to theory building and creating
different models we usually go for a
dual supervision model because we try to
go for thesis topics that are very much
multidisciplinary so bringing in or
combining several different areas of
expertise and we frame them within our
current research things which are for I
won't go through too much detail on that
we have these topics also posted on our
website but we work across four main
areas design theory and methodology user
experience neurophysiology and body
centric computing so some of these are
overlapping and complementary and
depending on where your heart lies
closer to the most you can choose and
position yourself within one of these
topics and what you can see here on the
slide are some subtopics that kind of
try to illustrate what this work within
one of these larger areas could be about
so all of our students eventually need
to position themselves and their mass
that is within this within these four
topics or with within one of these four
topics okay so
we also have a very nice infrastructure
to support our activities we have in our
school in our Institute we have five
labs but we're mainly using the first
three ones most of our activities are
based on the interaction design lab
where we go into kind of this we have a
space an open space which facilitates
all of these different conceptualization
and from the Taiping activities and then
there's a companion smaller lab to it
where we run controlled lab experience
using different equipment that I'll show
you in a moment and then we also use the
harbor lab where we mainly go into body
centric and yeah own own body computing
we also have the software lab and game
lab which also some where students use
but may need these three ones um that I
kind of highlighted here okay so some of
the tools that we use we go from
paper-based
to very hands-on microcontroller and
electronics materials we go and explore
different types of devices and different
types of modalities from wearables to
virtual reality to touchscreens to
motion sensors and game based
interactions to physiological computing
such as eye tracking emotions emotional
state tracking to finally tapping into
your brain and actually looking into how
your brain reacts to certain things
react to stimuli reacts to interactions
that are being kind of designed and also
how you in can interact with the system
through your brain so kind of this goes
both ways so as you can see a whole
range of different materials and devices
and equipment that we use all of this is
available in the labs that I mentioned
to you before and finally we also have
different kind of testers or flavors of
our arm of the courses that we teach in
the program in different formats one of
them the most maybe the oldest and one
of the more mature one is the
experimental interaction design course
where we actually go into a two
intensive process of conceptualizing
designing and prototyping Bodhi centric
interactions and pieces just some
examples with students coming with
necessary no design or development
background and in two weeks building
working prototypes with Arduinos and
microcontrollers so this is just a
glimpse of what we do in just two weeks
you can read more about it either on the
summer school or winters covariant
because we're on this course twice a
year we also run the annual world
visibility the event which I think the
last edition it happened took place on
November 22 in the town and critic hub
and it's it brought together on 500
people from the Baltics and maybe in
countries such as Finland Russia Sweden
people come from all the region to join
for this one they full event of of
conferences and presentations and also
an accompanying two or three days of
hands-on workshops so this is kind of an
also very big event that we're hosting
every year and you can read more about
this here on the website would Dottie
world usability day don't eat and I
think that's it that's what briefly I
wanted to tell you about the program I'm
exactly 15 minutes so I'm on time and
I'll hand it over to Sonya Andreas okay
Thank You Leah and I would like to
welcome everyone to this information
session first and I will be introducing
you the interaction design
can you just tell me when to switch so
basically this muscle is offered since
2016 it's a hundred percent online study
program it's run in English it's a joint
problem so it's run in cooperation
between two universities Tala
universities where I'm the head of the
program and Cyprus University of
Technology where andreas pathologies the
head
the program so we we have two heads
thank you for this program the game of
the master basically similar to the HCI
master stood educate and train students
who have a strong interest interest in
the interaction design also we emphasize
technology from the benefit of people so
in terms of position can you switch
position this this master it has it has
been created from from an existing
program that is human-computer
interaction and it overlaps also with
this problem some of the the courses and
also some other courses are together
from South Wales University of
Technology and that experience in this
in this problem so you can see here that
it kind of overlaps in this in this
sense Tallinn University and psychedelic
University and gains from this both
universities experiences but the next
one please
so in terms of her fields and our areas
we we prime the computer science the
business and the design area so all of
this overlapped a little bit here about
the program so in the it's the same as
the HCI program so four semesters to two
years course in the first semester fall
semester that runs from September until
December we have a set of foundation
courses core complementary courses and
practice and specialization the all of
them are compulsory so foundation
courses are like courses like design
Theory methodology research methods
foundations of human-computer
interaction the cold horses are like
courses like interaction design methods
complementaries prototype
and practice and specialization is
individual subjects where we invite
students to select a set of individual
subjects to study that they would like
to complement in that problem
the next during spring from January to
June we also have some set of core
courses complementary courses and
practice and specialization so the core
courses here are development of
interactive systems user experience
evaluation fuel research methods in HCI
the complementary are current topics in
human interaction in human-computer
interaction Universal Design the
practice is it's basically a practice
course where you invited to do practice
about the interaction design thank you
on semester three and semester for
second year so fall and spring we have a
set of core courses - and the foundation
courses so in semester three so the
course is the interaction design project
where you put in practice everything
that you learn on the first first year
and the foundation course is your master
to the seminar where you are helped to
set up the main research problem and to
guide you to - to who - throughout the
second the second the semester for that
is the master thesis notes so this is
more or less what what it is the
distribution of courses throughout the
fall semester so we are poor horses
master disease foundation courses and
practice and specialization courses mood
of the liver so everything is online we
use mainly Google tools Google Apps and
Google classroom we have a combination
of
and synchronous communication it's
mainly synchronous we have a couple of
synchronous communication at least one
or two per course but it depends on the
course content and the mode of the
lecture the deliver of the assignments
and and the projects are bi-weekly so
you will set you will have a set of
assignments every two weeks
the assessed test is a assessment is
based highly and in the assignments and
project work at the end of the semester
we invited you to present verbally in
the synchronous session and exam neutral
the the course we are starting this this
program in September 2020 so as I was
saying throughout the years of
experiences offering this course both
face-to-face and online we we believe
that we need to limit the number of
students so this this online course has
a small number of students because we
want to mentor in a mentoring students
one maybe and want one advising we also
want to make it flexible because the
main target of students are the ones
that are working students so that's why
we offered the course to be then to be
run as part-time or full-time if you are
if you do it a part-time you will do to
more or less an average of three courses
per semester if you know what this whole
time you'll do six courses per semester
regarding the lectures and students so
these are the set of lectures for
Tallinn University Ilya sonja and david
llamas and elections from the cycles
University of Technology andreas
Alexandra's and Panna cottas of course
we have additional extra support but
these are the main lecture
regarding the students we have a unique
and multinational set of students so we
have three students joining us from 36
different countries and you can see the
set of countries here the total of
students that we have right now it's 98
and by the end of this year we expect
wealth 21 students finishing the program
so if you want to know more about it you
are some testimonials here that you can
go and read about it but Shawn will will
also be here to kind of present her his
view of the problem he's finishing this
semester so he has a lot of things to
say to you yeah okay so that's it from
my side thank you thank you so much for
you so now we first invite capella to
maybe share some of your experiences
Gabrielle is from Brazil originally but
now living in Estonia for almost one
year and studying with us in the HCI
master's program so maybe completely can
say a couple of words think I need to
hello can you hear me yep loud and clear
yeah so thank you for the introduction
in it so yeah I'm Ella I'm originally
from Brazil I'm a something that at
first that was I thought I would not
really fit in the human-computer
interaction program because I'm from the
from Committee I have a background in
communications but yeah as either
explained it's a very interdisciplinary
course it's been really a very nice
experience so far we have a very mixed
group so the same way that I'm I'm from
communication I have people from
psychology people from computer science
and design order yeah order other
backgrounds and it's
really good because we can really
discuss from different perspectives how
how to move on with technology so I
think one of the the first things that
he mentioned that we the goal of the
program is to create technology for the
benefit of people I think that that's
really that's really what we discuss
here we have a lot of critical we
develop a lot of critical thinking on on
the topic and also have the chance to
have some hands-on experiences so now
I'm I'm finishing the first year so we
are actually still engaged in this
integrated project and it's been a lot
of work really in in developing
something so unfortunately we couldn't
use all the resources that we have in
the lab that he also presented we had
the chance to use some in the previous
semester but we managed to do everything
online but it's nice you know like
everything is really there we can really
use and I think one of the things that I
would like to highlight is that all the
teachers from from the beginning of the
program the program they're very open to
discussions and to to really hear and
what people have to say and helping you
out to develop the ideas that you have
so yeah I think I think it's a good way
or it's a very good program regardless
or for different objectives so I'm
really more into this conceptual I'm
interested in this conceptual area of
how to how to make better technology so
I think that's that's really interesting
for me but I see that also people who
are more into developing and creating
they also have been learning and growing
a lot in their practice and of course I
also managed to develop my skills on
that considerably so yeah I think
that's that's what they can say so far
also overall about University it's been
I mean it's not very big
University I think it's a good size so
we have enough space we have this art
this lab that we can use it's very very
helpful it's a place where we can
actually make contact with the teachers
with other students from other ears so
it's it's very good for the development
of our skills okay thank you so much
Gabriela so now maybe Shawn can share
some of these experiences into online
masters please okay hi Mary one for
Singapore so I come from a background in
art and computer science slam a door or
a designer developer so I guess what
made me want to do the program is it
would be nice to have a formal grounding
in designing for computer things so
that's why I did it
I guess most of you guys will be will be
like me working professional so after a
while design principles everything they
get they become intuitive so the whole
way the course was delivered I mean you
get it every two weeks you have an
assignment and it's more or less
practical so if it works for me it is
not it is stressing me out phonetically
that much because I'm not so good
[Music]
timewise he was great as well because
I'm in Singapore and they are over in
Estonia so the really deliver a
synchronously
that's good for me so why do is I
finished what then I do my assignments
then we return in and then we get
back and then at the end of everything
you do the presentation again module
went on we know what else can I see over
all the lectures are great they know
what they're doing really so yes and as
they yeah maybe maybe you could mention
just briefly your experience with
working with colleagues from all over
the world so yeah that is good to be
honest a lot of the people you'll be
working with a really experienced so we
had we had Joe who was idea UX I keep
telling them was like sanguine I was
above me so it's just really inspiring
inspiring to see what we are I'm Wanda
was only senior management and his is
overall quite a good experience I would
say yeah it's great it's great I like
you thank you so much John so maybe some
some of our participants will have
questions for you later on so be ready
to answer those yes what is your reason
for studying and what do you want to
achieve with this
yes Arielle's muted so well I didn't
mention before that I'm from
communications but I used to work with
advertising so my initial motivation it
was actually to try to move to the UX
field - I sort of in Brazil it's not
such a formal field and I wanted to get
some formal education that would
actually put me closer to that so that
was my initial goal that's why I started
but now I'm really interested in I'm
getting more involved into this more
theoretical research side of
human-computer interaction so now I'm
considering maybe trying to focus more
on research and maybe following a bit
further in city academic life so I'm not
sure yet but I feel like I I get I'm
getting enough skills to to follow both
paths if I decide later
so Shawn has already touched upon this
although in the format of the online
studies and the face-to-face studies are
similar so it's bi-weekly courses we
need every Wednesday Thursday and Friday
so you need to plan for full days from
morning till evening it's roughly I
guess six hours of classes six to eight
hours depending how intensive that they
will be and then you have two weeks in
between to work on your assignments
either individually or in group the labs
as Gabriela mentioned are open to
students 24/7 so usually you can apply
for a student pass and then you can go
and work in the lab so whenever you want
to if you prefer early morning or late
at night or on the weekends it's totally
up to you so it's it's whenever the
university is open it's almost open all
the time throughout the year I think you
are welcome to come at your own time at
your own schedule and and work here you
also wanted to entertain your online
course usually we set the deadline on
Tuesdays so you have the weekend to also
to work on your assignments so you
expect to deliver something something in
the end of the day of Tuesday's okay so
finally someone asks the question we
have been open waiting for what about
Kovac and what do we do about studies in
in autumn so the answer is that we don't
have an official answer yet we're
actually waiting for that from the
studies department but of course when
I've been talking about it for the
online masters is not a problem because
it's all online for the face-to-face
masters I think and this is kind of not
the official statement yet but that's
something that we're planning to do at
the moment is to go with blended model
studies so those who are able to come
here to Estonia for the beginning of the
school year are more than welcome to
come hopefully the health situation we
will be allowing us to to actually meet
face to face is there kind of in
vacations of that and those of you who
for different reasons won't be able to
come by September will be able to join
online in our session so we will have
kind of a parallel schedule of online
sessions to complement our face-to-face
study so maybe and kind of doing group
work presentations you'll be joining in
online together with our face-to-face
students and and contributing and
participating in that I guess like you
saw from the presentation of the online
masters we have extensive experience of
teaching both face-to-face and online so
it shouldn't be much of an issue of
going with this blended mode of studies
it's similar to the hei so it's a much
disciplinary program it's not we don't
demand so high it's so high
developing and programming skills so our
level of programming on online master is
lower than the other face-to-face but
the skills are multidisciplinary so you
can can come from different fields and
you will work together and you'll shed
experience regarding this yeah I hope
that I managed to answer my question
yeah maybe I can just comment on that as
well because the the development course
was I was teaching it before so what
we're planning for the new additions to
actually have a full support for you to
get you started started with kind of
basics of developments and to teach you
how to actually put stuff together so
we'll walk you through the process that
will be materials there will be full
support so that by the end of the day
you can actually make stuff happen even
if you don't have the technical skills
so I think it should be quite nice of
course we expect some technical skills
we're doing with with all necessary
tools for for learning online by
computer using the internet but this is
the basic ones yeah yeah true okay so
emma is asking about the programming
skills for HCI masters
again Sonya already touched on it the
the background of students degree mixed
it's very multidisciplinary and that's
why we also offer this harmonization
courses mmm the harmonization course for
programming skills is called end-user
computing and it fits nicely it starts
in the per semester and fits nicely into
the development of interactive systems
in the second semester so you go from
the full range of kind of really basics
of programming to putting more complex
stuff together like Android applications
eventually also getting introduced to to
Arduino and microcontroller so you'll
get the full support so the only thing
that we ask from you is kind of
motivation and interest to get started
with this even if you don't have the
background being open and being willing
to learn new stuff and then we'll kind
of walk you through the whole process
so
it's it's mainly of of we have a little
in Italian University we have a bit more
credit so we will run it's a program
that it's 51% from Tallinn University
and 50% from Cyprus university of
technology so it's 1% more from Tallinn
University
so well so far I've been I chose to
dedicate only to studies now but several
of our class of my classmates are
already working or already found
something so there are several several
startups and companies in in Estonian I
haven't really researched much in the
other Baltic countries but I I believe
that it's quite similar I think overall
in this HCI field either four more to
the side of programming and computer
science and also for the side of design
there's quite a good demand I would say
there's there's people needed likes cute
people needed in this regard so it's I
seek good opportunities there there are
possibilities to work there also even
within the university sometimes we get
contacted about opportunities for for
work or for projects so yeah overall I
would say there it's promising field
here yeah and it's also a challenge for
us teaching stuff because our students I
go start working either by then the
first semester by the end of the first
year and then we need to chase them so
it's a challenge we're kind of happy
that they can find a job but also not
happy when they get distracted with the
job and not focusing on their studies so
that's kind of it's it's it's kind of
two sides to the coin so but I would say
in general there are good opportunities
in Estonia maybe not immediately in the
first semester but as you start getting
some hands-on skills then experience
shows that by the end of the first
academic year most of the students can
get a job maybe on a slightly lower
level initially but then gradually
progressing to higher levels to
eventually some of our aluminized having
very nice positions are in the
in the IT IT sector in Estonia so most
of them aren't and working its and then
it's like a Braille I said it's your
decision whether you want to kind of not
work deliberately because you want to
focus in your studies or you want to
combine some house orders I think there
are good opportunities eventually
we are two types a to two types of
Admissions we have a documentation
admissions where we go throughout all
the documents that you submit and we
assess you in base of the documents and
then we do an intervention an interview
admission so this is the test that maybe
we are talking about Ilya
this isn't it from hgi point of view
yeah so there's a process that you need
to submit it's it's your CV motivation
letter and portfolio and then we in the
admissions interview we spent half an
hour pre each candidate actually meeting
you online synchronously and then we
kind of go over your interests we ask
you about eventually the the topic that
you would like to work on for your
master thesis your skillset some
projects that you have worked on in the
past and yeah we try to assess kind of
your plans and your motivations for the
future so that's that's basically what
the admissions is all about
well for designers we really go very
deep into the methodology and theory of
design the different theoretical
frameworks how to systematically
approach the design process and of
course also the technical side of things
so if you're lacking the technical
skills then we would first expect you to
invest more into learning the basics of
programming how to put stuff together so
that eventually this integrated project
that Gabriela mentioned that she's now
working on with our colleagues in the
second semester in Spain you would be
ready to actually actively contribute to
building stuff so that's that's kind of
the learning curve that you as designers
would go through
what I did was I was studying full-time
and I took the program full time as well
so it definitely can be done but I think
what most of the other students did is
they took three modules and then they
they worked at the same time so it's
really up to you to judge how much know
you can handle I guess but it can be
done I did full time work and I did full
time studies hope that answers a
question we also advise students to to
try and see how much courses they can
handle they can start with three
enrolling three courses and then if they
feel that they can handle a little bit
more than then the next semester they
can enroll in four or six it depends on
them the same the other way also works
so if you feel that you cannot manage
the workload and now you cannot let us
know and you can reduce the amount of
courses that we enrolled in the and the
next semesters
the courses are mainly fall semester are
based in HCI although in some cases we
have intensive courses for lasting for
one or two weeks but these are mainly
exceptions normally the courses last for
14 weeks that's the length of the
semester but which means that we will
have an average of seven to eight
contact sessions so one session every
two weeks so this is the average
schedule for the courses
to clarify as well that for the online
mastery any interaction design you don't
need to submit a portfolio you can but
it's not obligatory so for those who
would like for the online master they
need to submit their their CV
just to clarify yeah
for the h-hi for the face
face you need to submit the city the
motivation later and the portfolio so
three things that's that's the main
difference
if you have any more questions to
follow-up please send them over this
link that made it is shared with you
till till you dot e / n / en / as an
English / ask
thank you for coming yes thank you all
for being available and hope to see you
soon one of these days
