[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
yeah you're listening to autodesk's
digital Builder podcast a show that
inspires construction professionals to
innovate and use technology to improve
how they build our
world I'm Eric Thomas and I've been
working in construction for nearly a
decade and now I have the privilege to
sit down with industry Trailblazers to
hear how they're solving construction's
biggest challenges and redefining the
future of the built
environment all right welcome to another
episode of Autodesk digital Builder
podcast we are coming to you live from
Autodesk University it is the first of
three days right now our first interview
for the week actually so I'm excited I
hope uh you are as well I'm sitting down
today with Tanya custus the director of
AI research with Autodesk today we're
going to talk a little bit about what
the heck AI is what ml is artificial
intelligence machine learning what those
impacts are and you know really leaning
in on the the concept of why those tools
are not scary and they're actually going
to be our friend moving forward so I'm
very grateful for uh Tanya to join me
today and uh you know dispel some of
those rumors Tanya how are you doing
today we're back at at you it's great
doing great yeah it's great to be here
there's so many people here it's
exciting to be back in Vegas yeah
there's a I'd say what thousands of
people staring at us right now so no big
deal or any pressure right now I'm
really excited to build on what we did
last year at AES University in New
Orleans and so we're going to have a
super fun conversation and we're going
to get into the thi of it so can you
tell me a little bit more what does your
team do at Autodesk because it's it's
incredibly interesting and I'd really
love if you could kind of give an
overview of your role as AI research
lead so my team does fundamental and
applied AI research so we um extend and
Advance the state-of-the-art in Ai and
machine learning and you know in areas
that can be applied to Autodesk products
um doing computer science research uh
doesn't look that interesting um we're
not like it's not like a chemistry lab
with um lab coats or anything but you
know it's a lot of people in front of
computers running
experiments and um we do a lot of
research on deep learning and generative
AI for 3D 2D and C geometry you've got a
robust amount that you're covering your
team's doing some really cool stuff
which is is great and I think it gives
us a fantastic foundation for the rest
of our conversation to kind of do away
with those myths that we were talking
about but the the media cycle is is a
buzz right now about the impact of
artificial intelligence and I think
that's been growing for months and I was
hoping you could give me some context
why is this explosion of AI media
happening and what do these what do
these tools do right so why now um I've
been doing this for the last 15 years
and let me tell you no one has ever been
interested in what I do until now um my
parents have not understood what I've
done till now um I deal with that all
the time so um you know this isn't new
okay the math isn't new um AI is not new
it's it's more that we've reached this
kind of Tipping Point where data is in
the cloud it's in a place where we can
run compute on it and so the collocation
of data and compute is super important
to why we're seeing this now but then
also the side you know which leads to
the size of the models and they be have
become useful to people they become
almost humanlike so they've they've
become interesting like previously they
were not so interesting yeah they've
come to a point where they can help
people save time and so you know like 10
years ago I worked um at a place where
we were generating summaries
of legal legal briefs and legal cases
the editors took more time to fix the
garbage the computer generated then it
took them to just write things but now
we're at that Tipping Point where you
can generate something and the editor
can save time by just editing that thing
that the computer generated so that's
why now you know it's it's such a great
inflection point too and I'm hearing
more folks talk about Ai and our data
and managing their data in a in a really
robust way that I wasn't hearing 2 3 4
years ago and I think the light bulb is
starting to turn on people are starting
to understand as you just alluded to
like this is going to save me time this
is going to make a big impact on the
work that I do in my business and so
there's there's just a lot happening
right now and I'm excited I'm glad that
you're excited and your team's doing so
much fantastic work but could you dive
into that ambiguity Gap a little bit for
me right now so I think a lot lot of the
challenge that we deal with is folks
don't necessarily understand what these
different tools and Technologies do and
that is the Catalyst for the anxiety
that folks are feeling and so I'd love
it if you could you know lift the
curtain a little bit and give a high
level overview of you know what
artificial intelligence is what machine
learning is and you know what large
language models are because I think that
buzzword is starting to show up more
often now too definitely definitely is
um so generally we will Define
artificial intelligence AI as
capabilities that are being done by a
computer that are typically thought of
as being done by a human Okay so tasks
that a human usually does they're being
done by a computer so it's a pretty wide
definition um machine learning is a
subset of AI so not all AI is machine
learning but machine learning is all
AI the layer Nuance is exciting and
machine learning is when we learn we use
the computer learns from data so it's
learning patterns and probabilities and
and other information from the data
itself like classification things um
recommendation algorithms a lot a lot of
things you see every day are just simple
you know machine learning large language
models
are models built with machine learning
and they are built on huge amounts of
data and what they are trained to do the
training objective of large language
models is is to predict the next word
which sounds so boring um however when
you can do that and you can do it at
scale you also get a ton of other tasks
for free you get things like question
answering summarization um even
answering like math problems so you know
there's that scale is something that I
think surprised all of us um because we
had never trained at that scale before
we can use it for almost anything that
we use traditional machine learning for
like classification and and things like
that so yeah it's a really really
interesting place to be um but but again
they're not perfect they don't do
everything and they literally only
predict the next word it's they also
sound very confident so psychologically
you would really like to believe them
but they literally know nothing they
know no facts what they are exceedingly
good at large language models is
syntax linguistic syntax so like
structure of language and and there's so
much there especially with the the way
that I can learn from data and when I
talk to construction folks on the
regular I I really lean in on Data
standards and being really intent with
the way they capture the data because
that impacts everything you're talking
about so heavily as you start building
on that it's the garbage in garbage out
you know acronym where everybody goes
okay well you you know put everything in
at random and you know you're going to
get random back out if you're not you
know being very deliberate about how you
set that up and so I think it it really
is an exciting moment for our industry
because we're we're starting to step
back and say okay where where does this
get to augment what we're doing where
can it make improvements and I think
that's where I really like to emphasize
with folks that this isn't the the scary
Skynet that's coming at you right now
we're we're at this opportunity where
you say Okay a computer can do something
at scale that I can't do as a person or
can do it much more quickly and now I
get to go home at five instead of seven
or I get to go do something else and
100% you know that's that that feels a
lot better than this weird big brothery
Vibe of somebody watching everything
you're doing like that's not the value
and that's not what people are doing no
and honestly computers really are quite
stupid or I would not have a job so you
know they they don't learn what you
don't teach them number one and a lot of
the
Skynet you know Terminator scenarios
thanks movies yeah are are from movies
and it's also a little bit of like
psychological projection right so
whenever someone is afraid of like AI
doing bad stuff I'm like well what bad
stuff are you going to do you know no
Tech is neutral and it's the people
behind it that you know do bad stuff
right so like databases you could use
those for a lot of bad things but again
it's not the database's fault but we
tend to anthropomorphize Ai and sort of
like treat it like it's a person a
little bit and so there is a weird um
psychological aspect to it as well but
but honestly like AI is very not scary
yeah and and I feel like everything
you're sharing right now there there's a
bit of a confirmation bias in there too
where you go oh the bad thing happened
and we noticed but how many times was
the technology leveraged perfectly where
nothing happened and it was just the
most boring thing ever but you got to go
home at 5 and if it's intuitive yeah if
it's if it makes sense to you you don't
notice it right like yeah like every
every predictive texting suggestion you
get you know 99 out of 100 are great and
then you get one that's really weird and
then you like laugh at how bad the
algorithm is yeah okay yeah you're happy
with your Google home mini until it's
you know doing the wrong thing and then
you're yelling at it or at least I am in
my house don't tell anybody about that
one but i' I'd like to move a little bit
on into uh generative AI because that's
another topic that comes up fairly
regularly so can you tell me what what
the heck is generative Ai and and what
role does it have with in the
construction industry just with AI
generally um in the past traditional AI
we've been encoding things so we've been
taking a lot of information and kind of
compressing it down and encoding it now
what we're doing is we're taking those
encodings and decoding them and in so
doing it generates things okay so so
it's sort of just like The Logical next
step of figuring out how to do stuff
with AI generative AI is when you put in
a prompt and that prompt could be you
know a word it could be a phrase it
could be part of a drawing it could be
you know an image whatever right and
then the output of the algorithm
actually generates the output for you so
it's not like search where it's just
finding the output it's actually you
know generating so we see it a lot with
um language models like we were talking
about so chat gbt right can um you know
you give it a question it generates an
answer you um give it a couple articles
and it will generate a summary for you
that's what we're seeing and I think
we'll see it more and more because
generating things saves people time we
can take pictures of a construction site
and generate possible code violations
here's a drawing and it can generate you
know try these materials right so so
there's anything where you kind of you
know yeah generate anything namesake
makes sense when you start digging a
little bit in but you know anybody in
construction now it it makes so much
sense to think about these tools in
their application because is the the
labor shortages are not going away and
anything that we can do to improve how
our teams are able to go to work and do
things at scale with less time and
increasingly less resources available is
a huge win and so I'm really excited to
start seeing you know all these shifts
and all the buzz but we have to
obviously parse what's real and what
isn't as we kind of get into it but i'
I'd like to take a look at uh some of
the exciting announcements that came out
today during our keynote so I know
Andrew shared some exciting things can
you share your reaction to some of these
developments and the the impacts that
they're going to bring to Autodesk
customers yeah absolutely I mean I think
the the takeaways at least from my
standpoint today were one you know we
have been doing AI yeah this this isn't
new so it's not new um but you know
looking more at how do we leverage and
sort of sew that AI together into an
open platform um you know that approach
is so important because data is so
important and you can't do AI without
data but also capturing the workflow and
how the data moves through the workflow
is is also just such an important part
of AI because you're again you're
predicting things so you want to be able
to predict what's next and you can't
predict what's next if you don't know
what the next thing that's going to
happen is like in the design workflow
for example the importance of context
also so like what Amy was talking about
with um importing different contexts and
contextual information again that is so
important to you know the more the more
data you give the computer the more it
I'm not going to say understands but the
better it can predict you know and
thinking about um how we use AI at
different levels right so we can use AI
for analysis right so that's you know I
have a lot of data I aggregated it and I
learned these really interesting things
right like that is great and you know
but beyond that we can automate things
right so boring things that designers
don't want to do or that that take them
a lot of time and then beyond that like
you were talking about before
augmentation so like that's the ultimate
goal right like we want to make the
computer better but we also want to make
the human better right so like peanut
butter and chocolate right all of those
things sort of build on each other and I
think you know Andrew did a good job of
of sort of setting it up that way and
and we don't want to take the humanity
out of what we're doing as well like
absolutely you see a lot of the buzz in
the news right now where somebody goes
oh we're gonna you know AI music and
everything else it's like no like we
want to automate the things people don't
want to do so I can go sit on a beach
and play music instead of you know doing
some middle drawing you know takeoffs
for 19 years or whatever it happens to
be ex and you know AI it's it's a how
not a what so we talk about like I want
to do AI like okay but what do you want
what problem are you solving right and
AI honestly is not always the answer
it's not always the best way to solve a
problem and so you know it's a really
important tool in a modern software
engineering toolbox but you know you
need to use it when it's right and when
it's appropriate and I think you know
obviously people want to use it because
it's cool and fun but you know there's
there's a lot of problems you don't need
it for either yeah absolutely I think
that's where that the hype narrative
comes up a little bit sometimes we go I
think every technology company
regardless of what industry they're in
in the last six months has announced
something with I and it's just like well
does that really do anything for your
customers or did you think that that was
important for round you know raising
your series B round or something right
and I mean so ultimately a new product
should address like a either a customer
need you haven't addressed in the past
or you know we have plenty of products
that we could just you know replace the
guts of with AI and improve them right
and and in those cases maybe you won't
notice and maybe that's good that you
don't notice right because it's working
yeah sometimes that's okay if it's in
the background it's just amplifying the
workflows that you have but I think I
think that leads into my next question
actually can you talk a little bit about
the the real risks that might you know
come from introducing AI technology and
how the teams that are developing the
tools are really making sure that
they're protecting our friends working
in a first of all a data right so like
you said garbage in garbage out making
sure that you have the right data to
train the right use cases so important
there are a lot of things we're learning
about different kinds of data right we
don't have all the answers um sometimes
processing data one way will lead to
better results sometimes you know that
there's there's a lot of Science and
experimentation going on which is a lot
of what my team does um but again it's
looking at what's the right tool for the
job there's always going to be danger in
construction work what we're aiming for
is to make it safer and using aii in
ways that will make it safer so like
augmentation maybe like seeing things or
or patterns or trends that people are
not seeing like what are the strengths
of using AI for something and then you
know using it correctly and I think not
taking the human out of the loop is
really important for things that are
dangerous and we're also working um on
my team to do a lot of AI alignment
which is where we look at the output of
the
algorithms and we then kind of train
secondary algorithms or use
reinforcement learning to align them to
what is either safer or people like
better right um and you know so that
that also is a really important tool for
what we're doing in the safety
conversations one that I I really like
using it as an example actually because
you think about it from you know a large
project $200 million Construction
project you've got your safety
professionals on site they do their site
walks they're looking for risks they're
analyzing all these things technology
can analyze these risks at a scale that
a person can't do yeah and so if you're
doing uh different types of scanning
photography the technology can look for
fall hazards or scaffolding issues
that's not to say that your super
shouldn't go out and do these site walks
or anything because that human element
is so important but what it means is
you're just getting so much more
opportunity to check and see if
everything is safe and at a at a level
that just a human just can't do it's
just not possible it's processing more
information for you yeah right so it's
augmenting yep you and anybody on a
construction site knows first thing you
think about and last thing you think
about is going to be safety so
absolutely you know anything we can do
to improve that is going to be great is
there anything else that we can do to
reduce some of these you know Common
concerns that folks have or fears about
these tools anything else that comes to
mind um I mean a lot of what I do is
just education right explain today right
explaining to people that it's just math
it's not scary um explaining to people
that it's really the data that gives a
company a competitive advantage in AI
right so like Google and Bing if you
look at both search engines you know
Bing probably has better algorithm to be
honest but Google has a lot more data
right and so the data really is that
competitive advantage and I think you
know educating people how it works
demystifying it is really important um
but just you know transparency making
sure people feel that their privacy is
being protected or just when they're
interacting with a tool being
transparent that hey this this is AI
right or this you know this
recommendation was generated by a
computer like and giving them choices
right so here are a bunch of
recommendations you can take them or not
take them and that's totally cool and
that's totally different than having it
generate one answer
and forcing them to use it right this is
it we've seen when it makes mistakes and
what it does you kind of back away and
no thank you ex so a lot of it is like
how do we interact with it in a design
workflow especially even if you have
another person generating something for
you behind the scenes you probably don't
want it or or don't love it as much as
your own right and so you know it is
about that choice and using the AI like
a collaborator I think is will go a long
way towards building trust I appreciate
that and that that continued education
and the conversation around it
especially as it becomes more and more
Buzzy I I think is incredibly important
it's unfortunate almost that we've had
all these Terminator movies and
everything and somebody goes artificial
intelligence they're coming like I wish
I could have Arnold pop out right now or
something join our conversation to help
dissuade some of the uh the myths around
it but sadly I called them a couple
times and he wasn't available so we'll
just have to roll solo but I've got a
couple more questions for you today one
more on AI can you can you tell me a
little bit more more about the aspects
of artificial intelligence that people
are not talking about and they and what
else should they be talking about like
where are those gaps in the narrative
right now that you're seeing sort of the
no Tech is neutral situation right like
again this is the next step of software
engineering we've been using software
for a long time right and so thinking of
AI as something totally different than
just using software I mean it's it's
harmful but also a little naive um and
you know just really people don't think
enough about the data they don't think
enough about you know they're like I
want to do AI well like first you have
to put your data in the cloud and that's
probably boring and hard then you have
to organize it in certain ways which
again is like feels very remedial to
people who want this big fireworks
moment right they want it now yeah they
want it now and and you know and a lot
of AI is built on like smaller AI a lot
of times the first thing things you're
going to see out of using AI are I mean
kind of boring there's a patient aspect
to it there's the interface aspect right
we're in control of how people interact
with our AI making sure that the
customers know that they're in control
of their workflow that we're trying to
help them we're not trying to replace
them right I think all of those things
are just super super important and
there's no secret math right my team and
I we publish a lot of papers
and it's because the AI research
Community is super open no one company
has like some secret box of technology
that hidden tool that we're all going to
sneak in I mean no one does it is a very
open conversation in the scientific
Community I wish more people would learn
about it so they're not afraid um but
but yeah it's very open it's it's math
honestly like are you afraid of math I
mean kind of there there's a reason why
I didn't go well I I abandoned
engineering school just leave it at that
all right well well I I appreciate that
level set and and I think the point that
you made about just the importance of
you know just cleaning house with your
data is huge we did a research report
with FMI a couple years ago it was
called harnessing the data advantage and
construction and we really just leaned
in on what folks were doing where were
they concerned where were the success
factors were and we found that a lot of
people sit in a state of decision
paralysis right now because they don't
know where to start because it is
overwhelming I I I have so much empathy
for an organization especially a large
one that hasn't standardized fully in a
certain way and how they capture data or
had the opportunity to think about what
they want to do with their data which is
I think the important part about where
you start you got to go what what do you
want to achieve you don't just start
Gathering data madly exactly and when
you think about that then you get to
start identifying those little areas
where you go okay where where is our TCH
stack set up so well that making
improvements on our data is going to
have an impact with without as much of a
burden you fix that and then you've got
a win you get to show this to your team
and you go look at this and now this
cloud-based tool can figure this out
what if we did this everywhere else and
then you slowly start building if you
try to boil the ocean with your entire
data strategy and you've got none to
start with it's a losing proposition
because you're just going to be so
overwhelmed got pick that Focus area
absolutely again that sort of Paradigm
of like analyze automate and then
augment right like those go in in an
order and they're you know progressively
more thing you know more magnitude of
things you can do with that data as you
get it into shape for use so I think
we're uh We've covered the gamut as far
as high level on what the heck AI is and
why you know people shouldn't be afraid
of hanging out and uh you know
installing some tool whether it's chat
GPT or something there's a there's a
myriad of things you can jump into and
of course Autodesk has announced some
new stuff and we've been doing a lot of
cool stuff with regards to data as well
so don't forget about that but moving on
to our final question what is one tool
that you will always use on any project
that you work on Creative problem
solving I like it it's the number one
thing I look for when I hire people um
you know my my undergrad degrees is in
music my grad degrees are in linguistics
and I'm here talking to you about
construction so I like but it makes
sense when we talk through it your your
uh your background is so impressive so
I'm really glad that we're here yeah
being able to take something you know
from somewhere and apply it to a new
place
you know AI is inherently
interdisciplinary and and it's you know
the thing I use every single day I like
it and I think the the creative Focus
that folks can bring to the table really
helps us think about like what that what
that what can we do what's possible
what's the options and then you know we
start trying things out and see where
we're at and you know a few years
hopefully the the level of automation as
we move further and further into the
cloud is going to continue to increase
and I think I think that's applicable to
you know no matter what industry you're
working in whether it's construction or
you know any of the other industries
that AES serves or otherwise so
absolutely well thank you so much for
joining me today on digital builder for
everybody who is sitting and staring at
me right now and listening to the show
of course I am your host Eric Thomas we
are a weekly podcast a video first
podcast as you might notice with all
these cameras pointing directly at me
right now if you are interested in
checking out another episode make sure
you head over to the Autodesk
construction Cloud digital Builder blog
or you can find me on LinkedIn at
Builder unor digital and uh if you also
have a moment and you like what we're up
to I'd appreciate if you take a second
to you know rate US five stars and
whatever player that you listen to and
uh without further Ado
[Music]
goodbye
