assembly a low-level programming
language allowing humans to give
instructions to the computer's Hardware
you see computers can only do things in
terms of zero or one so assembly was
created in order to make computer
instructions more workable for human
beings this works by using an assembler
that translates the human readable code
into one's and zeros assembly is one of
the world's first programming languages
it used to be the standard to run
supercomputers back in the day but you
still find it used currently to work
with CPU memory and it's used sometimes
in browsers via web assembly Fortran one
of the world's first highle languages
the difference between a highle language
and a lowlevel language is in a
low-level language you can manipulate
the computer's memory much more directly
it also executes much faster than a
highle language the drawback is is that
it's much harder to learn a highle
language is much easier to understand
and there's a lot of support but the
code is much slower Fortran was created
by IBM in the 1950s the name stands for
a formula translator programming in
Fortran would be done by using a punch
card then would be fed into a card
reader and would be translated into code
that the computer can understand this
translating process is called compiling
which basically changes the code that
humans can read into the ones and zeros
computers can understand comtran also
known as commercial translator is
another programming language developed
by IBM it served as the business
equivalent to Fortran in which Fortran
was used for scientific Computing it was
influenced by another programming
language called flomatic a programming
language for data processing that ran on
this giant supercomputer called the
univac 1 lisp also known as list
processing was created soon after
Fortran it's known for using a lot of
parentheses in its code it was an
Innovative language which in insired
these Concepts in programming cobal
standing for common business oriented
language was the programming language
developed in 1959 for you guessed it
businesses even though it was made so
long ago it is still used today by many
financial institutions to process
transactions the code looks like plain
English sentences but this would later
be translated onto a punch card one of
the first adopters of the language was
the US Department of Defense IBM RPG IBM
report program generator is a
programming language created by IBM
meant to run on IBM systems it's one of
the only programming languages to makes
use of rows and columns for its code
alol 60 short for algorithmic language
1960 is not a very well-known
programming language but is one of the
languages that inspired one of the most
well-known programming languages in the
world C it was also one of the first
programming languages to use nested
functions APL standing for a programming
language first appeared in the 1960s is
a programming language developed for
mathematical equations mostly algebra it
uses a lot of math and Greek symbols
directly in the code simula a
programming language made many decades
ago that was one of the world's first
object-oriented language objectoriented
programming is a way for programmers to
use blocks of code that are reusable and
can interact with each other instead of
pure functions and logic in
object-oriented programming you use
blocks of code called objects objects
are created by things called classes
which contain properties and can use
methods to explain it simply you can
create a class called Pok√©mon name the
object Charmander give it properties
such as fire type and allow it to
execute methods such as flamethrower and
scratch Speak Easy A programming
language that was mainly M used by
physicists in the' 60s it's known for
using a colore in its code basic the
beginners allpurpose symbolic
instruction code was created at
Dartmouth in 1963 it was created with
the purpose of getting the average lay
person to be able to learn how to code
you see before that time programming had
only been the domain of scientists and
mathematicians this was because of its
easy to understand syntax syntax is
basically the rules to writing in a
programming language Ms Ms aka the
Massachusetts General Hospital utility
multiprogramming system or sometimes
just m for short was created to manage
Hospital laboratory Information Systems
it was also used to manage electronic
health records its code tends to be very
tur which means you can take most of its
word commands and abbreviate them into
simple short letters logo an educational
programming language made in the' 60s
which makes use of what is known as a
turtle graphic not an actual Turtle it's
the name of the cursor used to draw
geometric shapes as determined by the
code Pascal a programming language that
was very popular in the' 70s even being
the default language for many computers
back in the day it was one of the first
programming language to be used by an
IDE which is an integrated development
environment basically a dedicated
program to write its code one of the
most well-known programs created with
Pascal was Photoshop C A programming
language created in the' 70s that is one
of the most popular programming
languages of all time created at Bell
Labs it is the basis of many operating
systems such as Windows and Linux it
also inspired many programming languages
that came after it such as C++ c
objectiv c go Java JavaScript PHP Python
and many more it's known for its
lowlevel ACC access to the computer's
memory by using code called pointers
computer memory was much more of a
finite resource than the past so
programmers had to be much more careful
about how they allocated it otherwise
it'll cause problems such as memory
leaks which is basically when programs
use up too much memory in your computer
causing the computer to become painfully
slow Small Talk a programming language
in the' 70s that was known for its
object-oriented programming it inspired
many object-oriented programming
languages that came after it prologue
known as the first logic programming
language it is known for being modeled
after formal logic in philosophy ml also
known as meta language pioneered
statically typed functional programming
which basically means giving information
certain types such as strings integers
Floats or booleans strings are just
words and letters integers are whole
numbers floats are real numbers so they
can be decimals and Boolean is something
that can be either true or false SQL SQL
also known as structured query language
also even called SQL is a language used
for creating and managing databases you
store information in things called
tables and structure them with rows and
columns the code also looks like plain
English sentences it is used by many
systems even today to store their data
such as usernames and passwords
transactions account information and
more basically think of it as a system
of Excel spreadsheets C++ an extension
of the C programming language the major
difference is C++ has object-oriented
programming unlike the original C which
didn't it's also known for its steep
learning curve C++ is one of the most
important programming languages of all
time even still in wide use today still
being the main programming language in
creating operating systems web browsers
databases and games Ada a programming
language made in the 1980s that is
mainly used by the US Department of
Defense it is named after the credited
world's first programmer Ada l mat Lab
Mat lab or Matrix library is a
mathematics programming language used by
data scientists and Engineers it's a
mathematics based programming language
that can be used for statistics Robotics
and artificial intelligence it's still
widely used today mainly by Academia
Objective C A programming language
inspired by C that was created in the
1980s which became the main language for
Apple Computers even being the main
language for the early iPhones although
its popularity has fallen over the years
mainly due to Apple replacing it by a
newer programming language called Swift
in the mid-2020s lab view made by
national instruments in the 1980s it is
a programming language that doesn't
really use traditional code instead it's
a graphical programming language where
you build user interfaces and handle
code using images llang a programming
language designed for the Telecom
industry Pearl a language that was
designed to work very well with text
it's used for system administration
Network programming finance and more
Pearl has been known as the duct tape
that holds the internet together if
you've ever seen the code it actually
looks pretty wacky Wolfram created by
Steven Wolfram it's a language that can
perform data visualization image
processing mathematics and pretty much
anything you can think of it can even
tell you the shortest route around
Europe hcll it's a functional
programming language with its unique
feature of its variables being immutable
which means you can't change them the
language is based on Lambda calculus
Visual Basic a programming language
developed by Microsoft in the early '90s
it's used to create Microsoft programs
and applications by using guis or
graphical user interfaces basically
anything you can interact with with your
mouse on the screen is part of the
graphical user interface it also has a
very popular IDE of the same name Lua a
language known for its speed and being
able to be embedded into other programs
it's also known for being very easy to
learn Deli nothing much to say about it
it's basically Pascal but with
objectoriented programming it even comes
with its own code editor oaml oaml is a
functional based programming language
like haskel and earling functional
programming languages are good at doing
math and objectoriented programming
languages are good for building
Enterprise level software python python
is a general purpose programming
language and you can use it to make
pretty much anything from desktop
applications to websites creating bots
or API handling servers and databases
game development image processing
statistics and so much more that it
would need its own video python is
currently one of the most popular
programming languages for creating AI
it's also one of the most popular
programming languages in general in fact
most beginner programmers start with
python as their first programming
language not only for its vast utility
but also how easy it is to learn one of
its only drawbacks is that it tends to
be pretty slow compared to other
programming languages like C++ Ruby Ruby
is a language very similar to python
even the code looks similar Ruby is easy
to learn and the code is also very
readable one of the most popular uses of
Ruby is to combine it with a framework
called on Rails to create websites
adopting the full name Ruby on Rails
Ruby on Rails is currently the backbones
to many websites we know currently such
as Hulu Airbnb coinbase Shopify twitch
SoundCloud and many more a lot of its
popularity was was its ability to be
able to create full stack websites full
stack is the combination of the
front-end and the backend development of
a website a website's front-end is
basically everything you can see with
your eyes basically the entire interface
the text the images the buttons and the
videos are all part of the front end the
back end is the non-visual part of the
website which is mainly the servers and
databases account information
authentication and data storage is
what's part of the back end Java
remember the thing some programs ask you
to install on your computer yeah that's
an actual programming language it gained
popularity immediately after it's
released and it's still popular today a
big advantage that Java has is that it
allows you to create programs that are
very platform independent that's because
Java can be compiled into B code which
can be understood by many operating
systems all your computer would need is
a Java runtime environment to do this
which is what you're installing every
time your computer asks you to install
Java Java can be used to create many
things like video games such as
Minecraft or mobile apps on Android a
meme amongst beginner programmers is
that Java's code tends to be prey verbos
R A programming language in which its
main purpose is statistics it's a widely
popular programming language used to
organ organized data and data
visualization it's very useful for
researchers conducting epidemiological
studies if you're a researcher studying
in fields such as economics psychology
biology medicine Etc learning how to
code in either python or R is a very
useful skill JavaScript JavaScript is
not the same as Java in fact it has
nothing to do with Java JavaScript is a
programming language that is mainly only
used in web browsers in fact 98% of the
internet uses JavaScript JavaScript is
responsible for the main functional
aspect of the website it's it's based on
the ecmascript standard and is often Us
in conjunction with HTML and CSS but
sometimes you can create websites which
is pure JavaScript using Frameworks such
as react and with react mobile you can
create mobile apps HTML and CSS HTML and
CSS are both scripting languages to
create websites HTML deals with the pure
content and structure of the website it
uses code called HTML tags in order to
build the content on the web page CSS is
used for the design or aesthetic look of
the website it deals with the
arrangement of content colors borders
gradients opacities and can even perform
animations PHP PHP AKA personal homepage
but sometimes also called hypertext
pre-processor is a programming language
mainly used on web servers you can
actually embed PHP directly into HTML
PHP although waning in popularity is
still the backbone of many major
websites today it was the language Mark
zuger bird first built Facebook in
action script a language based on
JavaScript in which its main purpose was
its use in Flash have you ever played a
flash game back in the day that was most
likely made using AC script it was first
created by macromedia which released
action script 1 and version 2.0 but when
macromedia was later bought out by Adobe
Adobe released action script 3.0 even
though as of 2020 Adobe Flash has died
out you can still use action script with
Adobe animate C A programming language
made in the early 2000s by Microsoft it
was influenced by C++ and Java C's most
common uses are being used in web
servers with the Net Framework and video
game development with the unity engine
Scala Scala was made as an alternative
to Java it also uses many of Java's same
technology such as the Java virtual
machine but unlike Java it has many
features of functional programming
Powershell basically the Windows command
line on steroids come with its own
scripting language FSH f is the sister
language to C with the difference of it
being able to support functional
programming Julia a programming language
made in the early 2010s in order to
perform high level computations data
analysis and visualization and
Mathematics its main advantage is that
it's much faster than other programming
languages that do this the code is a lot
easier to read and it's much easier to
learn oh a programming language designed
to create graphical user interfaces for
websites it can be compiled into
JavaScript Nim a programming language
with the Simplicity of python combined
with the memory allocation of C++ Raku
nothing much to say it's basically Pearl
but version six although it has a pretty
wacky logo scratch a programming
language made in MIT that is completely
Visual and block based no seriously the
code fits together like Lego blocks it
was made with the purpose for teaching
children how to code despite its
Simplicity you can make pretty complex
things with It Go formerly known as go
Lang was created at Google to be a
modern version of C the code can be
similar to python but it's much faster
due to its compiling method it's mainly
used in servers with Frameworks like
Docker holy C A programming language
created by Terry a Davis in 2005 made
with assembly it was used to create an
operating system called Temple OS an
operating system inspired by a
revelation from God the main interest in
this programming language is due to the
backstory of the developer although
being a talented programmer suffered
from and ultimately succumbed from his
battle with schizophrenia cotlin known
as the easier form of java is a language
used to create mobile apps on Android OS
the most popular IDE to code cotlin in
is Android Studio typescript basically
JavaScript but with static typing Dart a
programming language created by Google
that you can use to create web
applications or mobile apps using the
flutter framework Swift developed by
Apple to replace Objective C it is the
standard programming language to create
anything in iOS and it comes with its
own code editor called xcode you can
only code in Swift if you have an Apple
computer or use a virtual machine rust
okay this is the true modern version of
CN C++ it's good if you want to write
simple code while also handling memory
issues it's a very popular programming
language and it's used to make
applications where performance is
extremely important such as game engines
or operating systems solidity a
programming language created for the
ethereum network programs created in
solidity are called smart contracts
these Smart Tracks are later deployed to
the blockchain however once smart
contracts are deployed to the blockchain
they cannot be changed or altered again
so before a contract is deployed usually
developers test them thoroughly
beforehand this is done using testing
environments such as truffle and hard
hat depending on the smart contract can
cost memory and even money in the form
of ethereum to work its main uses are
for creating web 3.0 decentralized apps
decentralized Finance applications or
defi to even your own tokens or nfts the
type of smart contract you'll make will
depend on the ERC format you're adhering
to ERC standing for ethereum request for
comment Elixir a popular programming
language that was created in Brazil it
runs on the llang beam virtual machine
which compiles the language into bite
code you can do with Elixir the same
things you can do with llang the
language which is commonly used for
Telecom e-commerce and finance Zig
another programming language intended to
be the successor of C it was created in
the mid 20110 and is slowly gaining in
popularity Microsoft power FS a language
created in 2021 by Microsoft it is used
in a low code program called power apps
a low code program is a program that
allows you to create applications with
little to no code but if you want to add
extra logic or functionality to your app
it would be done using power effects
also the language is based on Microsoft
Excel be sure to share this video and
thanks for watching
