hi my name is Olivia lanes and I'm the
North American lead here at IBM Quantum
and today we're going to be talking
about how to best increase your chances
of getting an internship at IBM Quantum
or any other Quantum Computing company
so the complaint I hear most from
applicants every season is how hard it
is to get an interview so we're going to
focus on the getting to the interview
stage of your application for
internships because once our applicants
get interviews they actually do quite
well so in order to get
your application and your resume in
front of a hiring manager I'm going to
give you some some specific tips so
first thing to know is here at IBM
Quantum we have one of the biggest
internship opportunities out of any
Quantum Computing company we host over a
hundred interns every summer and I'm
happy to say that this year we have
already launched our internship
applications for our 2023 internship
season so we have three specific
applications that I want to talk about
today we have the hardware internships
the software internships and then the
research internships and every single
category that I'm listing here has their
own job recommendation
so the hardware internships are pretty
self-explanatory if you want to work in
sort of like an engineering role get
your hands dirty with some of the
hardware that's the job for you if
you're interested in software
applications or working on any layer of
the quantum Computing stack or even
Theory the software application wreck is
for you and if you have experience doing
research if you're a graduate student
and you want to know what research is
like in a more industrial setting the
research recommendation is what you're
probably going to be looking at
so with these three applications we get
lots of applicants every single year and
it can be really really hard to know
which applicants are going to be the
best fit for every single role so here
at IBM it works like this you apply to a
specific category one of the three that
I just listed here and then your
application and your resume gets put
into a pool and hiring managers have
access to everybody in the pool and so
they're going to be looking for people
whose qualifications match specific
skills needed for the job that they're
looking to hire for that summer
so you want to make your application as
specific as possible and it's totally
okay to apply to more than one of these
positions but one thing I will caution
you on is you really need to tailor your
resume to each specific job wreck that
you're applying to so if you might be
interested in hardware and software and
you're not really sure which one would
be more fun you do need to write
different applications you need to have
a resume that lists your Hardware
experience more prominently than maybe
your software experience and then you
need to have another which really digs
into your software experience maybe over
your Hardware experience assuming you
have both one other question people have
is when should I apply to a Quantum
Computing internship a lot of people
think that they need to wait until they
are further along in their education and
maybe working towards a graduate degree
to even have a good chance of applying
but that's not actually true as you can
see from this graph here our internships
are pretty split down the middle in
terms of people that we hire who are
working towards their bachelor degree
and people that we hire who are working
towards a graduate degree and it's split
at about 48 percent undergrads about 15
percent Masters students and about 46
phds equating to about uh 36 percent
people who are working towards their
doctorate degree and this is just data
from last year so I would say apply as
soon as you are interested and as soon
as you have relevant experience towards
the job that you are looking to attain
so once people are accepted into one of
these three programs you can see here we
have a list of specific projects that
people worked on last year in software
and a specific list that people worked
on here last year in Hardware so if any
of these apply to you I definitely
encourage you to apply so as I was
saying it's really important to make
your application as specific as possible
because you're not applying to a
specific team you're applying to be as
part of a pool as part of a category and
then hiring managers have to select you
out of that pool and figure out which
skill set is best for the project that
they want you to work on you should
really be as specific as possible
so for instance one thing that I see a
lot is people who are really General
resumes and they say you know I just I
love Quantum Computing I would do
anything to work in Quantum Computing
I'm interested in all aspects of it
which is it's great to hear that but it
makes it really really hard to know what
to hire you for because we don't
actually see any specific direction or
any specific passion so we need to know
what specific aspects are most appealing
to you and sometimes I sympathize and it
can be really hard to choose there's a
lot of interesting aspects of quantum
Computing but if you can just pick one
or two and put at the top of your
application or at the top of your CV hi
I'm so and so and I am looking to apply
to a position doing X Y and Z based on
my specific experience in X Y and Z
that's going to increase your chances of
sticking out to a hiring manager and
letting them know oh this person has a
direction and they have a specific skill
which lends itself towards me and my
project another thing that I always tell
people is helpful to do is to get a
referral but I think what people sort of
misconstrue with that notion is that
they should reach out to anybody at the
company and ask for a general referral
Without Really knowing them and this is
actually not helpful because if a person
who you know works on the software side
is asked for a referral and they they
want to you know help you out and they
give you a referral but you're
interested in a hardware position that
referral doesn't really mean anything
because that person doesn't really know
the project you're going to be working
on what I would recommend doing instead
of just reaching out to people at the
company if you don't really know what
they work on is to find specific people
who are working in an area that you're
interested in and say hi you know my
name is ABC I am really interested in
the work that you've done be specific
tell them the work that they've done
that you're interested in and say you
know I have a specific skill do you
think there's a fit for me on your team
this year don't just come out and ask
for a referral I would say am I am I a
good fit for you do I have relevant
skills do you have any openings on your
team this year this is all going to lend
itself much more organically to helping
you get your foot in the door all right
so lastly I want to list some really
specific things that hiring managers
have told me that they have been looking
for in the past so you can know the
level of detail that you should be
looking to put on your CV now don't
write these sentences down exactly these
are just examples of things that people
were looking for last year so you can
know how people are going to be viewing
your resume
so for instance a hardware manager told
me that they are looking for people who
have specific e m RF and microwave
experience along with basic or even
quantum mechanics experience
they also need to have hands-on
experience with connectors power and
mechanical design and it's also
desirable to have software development
skills for automation purposes
on the other hand a software hiring
manager told me that you know we hire
people all along the stack of quantum
Computing software so the specific
languages that they might be looking for
you to have experience in really depend
on what part of the stack you want to
look at look at and work on either at
the front end the back end part of
development but some of the languages
that we look for specifically
this is not all inclusive but as an
example
um are people who have experience with
languages like C rust Pi torch SQL
pandas and kiske in addition software
development hiring managers look for you
to be able to demonstrate that you care
about clean code principles and are able
to work on technical projects in a
really collaborative team environment
so those are the tips that I have for
you right now I hope that some of these
have helped you gleam what might help
you get your foot in the door and secure
an internship for next summer if you
have any other questions feel free to
ask them in the comments below and good
luck with the 2023 internship hiring
season
everybody
[Music]
