foreign
visualization in data science
my thanks for talk was that hosts for
making the stock possible I trust a
couple of words about me as it was
already set I am book Grand Master
in in hold the first place in the
ranking for some time so I have some
experience in data visualization and
currently I am working at the senior
data scientist at Karim and use that
resultation at my job too so I have some
practical experience in Industry too
uh let me present you the content of my
talk
first of all I'll speak about better
reservation in general why is it useful
how can it be used for everyday tasks
and what is it then I'll speak a bit
about the history the history of data
visualization is a huge topic so I'll
just highlight several important points
nowadays people usually use specialized
software for data visualization and I'll
show examples and when possible the
pieces of code for it uh there are a lot
of types of charts which people use for
data visualization so they have various
ways of being categorized and I'll show
these ways
um next if you are doing that
visualization like for yourself or
infrequently then you could use just
default ways of doing it but you aim to
do it professionally you would need more
skills and I will talk about the skills
is that previous points were more about
the theory even though with some pieces
of code and next I'll talk about
practice I'll show several examples of
taking a mediocre visualization and
improving it we will see how can they be
improved step by step and then I will
show some practical examples of
visualizations used for machine learning
specifically for models for
interpretation and so on
so what is that visualization if we use
a formal definition then data
visualization is the graphical
representation of information and data
Yeah so basically we are humans our life
our eyes are drawn to colors to shapes
and patterns so data visualization uses
them and regrets our interest and tries
to keep us interested in the message
when we see a chart we usually can see
the trends and developers if we see
something we can easily easily
internalize and understand it and this
is how storytelling works this is much
better than just studying at a huge
spreadsheet with data and then selling
nothing but it's not that easy you can't
just slap a random chart on the data
yeah to create an efficient that
visualization we need to balance the
form and the function for example if we
have a practical bad playing graph it
could be too boring to capture people's
attention yeah on the other hand if you
have Estonian visualization it may have
may fail at delivering the right message
information yes so the data and the
visualization need to work together and
there is not to combine in great
analysis with great storytelling now I
will show two practical examples where
data visualization shines compared to
these looking at simple back statistics
this small data set is called as
compressed that it worked it shows four
pairs of X and Y they have different
values and yet they have the same
statistics and correlation as you can
see in all the cases the mean value of x
is nine the mean value of y is 7 7.5
when the correlation is the same yeah
but if we look at the plots we see a
completely different story yeah the
first Port is something which we could
expect of a Europe situation when I have
some data or some random noise and but
it's still currently yeah but if you
look at the second and the third charts
you can see that they are very different
from the first one and of course there
is the last plot which has a huge
outlier and uh yes so so you can see
that we have the similar data they have
similar statistics but they look
completely different of course when we
have this small table we can see the
problem almost immediately here but if
we have some huge data some big data
with million Scrolls it would be
impossible to just understand something
by looking at it so visualization would
really help in this case yeah another
fun example if this is the set it's
called the resource doesn't yeah as you
could guess from its name it has 12 data
sets with the same stats so basically we
have a 12 uh different data sets which
have the same means the same statistics
but as you can see they look completely
different yeah so this is another great
example of the importance of data
visualization
um as I said history about the
visualization is a huge and vast topic
yeah but it's not possible to speak
about everything in my talk so if you
want to know more about
some important Milestones then you could
read this slide yeah but I'll talk about
two points first of all I want to show
this awesome visualization yeah this
visualization was done around two
centuries ago and it's called the minor
minor diagram it shows the losses
suffered by Napoleon's Army in the 1812.
here you can see six variables the size
of the army the location in the
two-dimensional surface this time the
direction of movement and the
temperature Yeah so basically when you
look at the line the width illustrates
the size of the army at a specific point
of time the temperature axis shows the
possible cause of the change of
environment size yeah and you can also
see where the Army was situated Yeah so
basically you have six variables on the
two-dimensional surface
wrote in 1900 take a series that it
could be the best statistical graph ever
drawn of course since the time there
were some other awesome graphs but this
is still amazing for the time that
Bishop was created
uh speaking of two uh John 2K and Denver
are two famous uh persons because they
did a lot of progress data visualization
one of them had a statistical approach
for exploratory data analysis and the
other one wrote the book the visual
displays of quantitative information
they paved the way for refining data
visualization techniques so that can be
used by simple people and not only by
statisticians yeah in this book that
also defines the principles for a fixed
effective graphical display and they are
still actually in use nowadays yeah
there are a lot of great ideas but they
can be received in the following points
the first one is maximize data in
Croatia the think ratio is the term of
the also and he uses it a lot in his
book yeah basically he was against using
excessive decorations he performed
simple and functional charts yeah
another point is minimize life Factor so
avoid distorting what the data has to
say I will show several examples of it
and there's the points I think are
self-explanary so it's understandable
now I want to talk about the software if
we talk about some beautiful data
visualizations they're usually done by
hand or maybe by usual visual editors
even Photoshop for example but usually
it's too time consuming pretty
inefficient and people prefer to use
more practical software
let's start with python yeah python is
commonly used to programming language
used for machine learning data science
and many other things there are a lot of
packages and MacBook leap is the most
popular one for data visualization it's
possible to do almost anything with it
yeah also it would require a lot of code
those people who already tried math
complete know that it's very verbose
sometimes you need to write a real
result of code yeah but it's extremely
flexible and versatile yeah once in it
isn't very good at is making interactive
clothes because the world's well it's
possible to create them yeah it's
possible but it will be very difficult
and there are better tools for example
this tool this is plotly this is another
python library and it is what's created
for interactive visualizations making
pop-ups filtering zooming and many other
things there is a huge ecosystem around
it for example there is a dash for
creating the dashboards yeah of course
there are many different libraries for
interactive visualizations but for
example I like this one
and some of my visualizations will have
a code illustrating them so here you can
see how to make a singular similar
visualization basically you import the
plotly you get some data as a point of
the frame and you make a plot you define
what data you use so what will be the
high values what do the flow values and
so on and then you make a plot so it's
quite consistent yeah and not very
difficult
uh another Library which can be used
both foreign
I think it deserves a separate mention
well it may be not very popular not as
popular as possible but it's still very
awesome yeah it's one of the few
libraries that are based on the grammar
Graphics grammar of Graphics is like a
huge separate topic I can't discuss it
now too but basically it's a framework
which follows a layered approach to
describing and construct visualizations
of graphic and structured many when you
define different parts of the plot in
different ways so here is an example
yeah it's very different from plotly but
basically you also import this Library
you have the data and you pass it to the
code and then you define what you want
to show you want to show Colors you want
to show tool tips and you can Define
that it will be interactive or not yeah
so it I think it's about it's
interesting properly yeah and very
likely to use it now if we talk about
visualizations and the programming
languages we have to speak about r r is
a widely used programming language for
data science and machine learning and
the digi plot 2 is the most famous
library for visualization many people
say it's the best that we can use for
visualizations even if we compare iron
python yeah so and you can notice that
this button the previous ones are pretty
similar yeah yeah and this is because
digital plot 2 is also based on the gram
of graphics and you can see that the
syntax is even simpler yeah and many
people prefer the syntax they say is
that JoJo Port 2 is awesome and very
easy to use and they can't use anything
else well difficult to argue with them
considering that we need someone to code
for it right
uh now while a lot of people use
programming languages for visualization
yeah there are many solutions to for
making visualizations without them for
example Tableau is one of the most
famous tools for creating visualizations
and dashboards yeah it can be you
published a white audience it can be
self-hosted and so on and so on it's
very flexible it allows a lot of things
to do and it's quite popular so if you
don't want to use programming language
yeah you can use this for example
but there is another side of the
spectrum so while Python and R have some
Syntax for right for making
visualizations that would be difficult
it would be simple but there is that
redress it's a library for JavaScript it
produces Dynamic and interactive
visualizations many stunning
visualizations on the internet are done
create with Nick but it's like extremely
difficult to use it requires a lot of
code it's very difficult so yeah you can
you should use it only if you are ensure
that you want to invest a lot of time
when making that organizations but yes
you will be able to create awesome
things which you won't be able to do any
other way yeah
[Music]
now let's talk about different types of
charts yeah there are really a lot of
them there are box plots error charts
and so on I don't think it's possible to
talk about each and one and every of
them in details yeah I'll speak about
them in a different way so if we have so
many different types of we need to have
some way to structure them to categorize
them to understand which one should we
use because if we know that there are
like 50 different types of graphs then
we maybe we won't have any idea which
one to use in our case so there are many
different ways to categorize them so
here for example this nice visualization
shows different types of plots which can
be used for different types of data so
basically this is categorization based
on the nation of data for example if you
have a single numerical feature yeah you
can use some density photo histogram
it's a basic approach and it's pretty
useful now if you use two of them you
need to show some kind of interaction
and the Scatter Plots or box plots are
great ways of doing
when you have more than then it could be
something difficult and you will have to
use some Advanced types of codes stack
the reports and so on but in practice
they are rarely used so usually you just
take one or two features and compare
them
now if you have categorical variables
then there are different approaches I
suppose bar plot is the most popular one
you just make blocks which shows for
example the account or the variable or
some statistics of it yeah it's pretty
popular it's pretty easy to use and it's
extremely good and versatile now if you
have more than there are some other
types of visualizations and you can see
them on the screen but I think that most
of them are rarely used like well maybe
if we don't speak about Trend diagram
but things like shorts are currently
unique
but also you could have some like
non-tabulary data yeah for example
networks well it's possible to make to
keep the network data in structured and
table that are uh interview but they
usually it's kept some different way and
here you can see for example networks
are doing the grounds that can be used
to plot
now it was about the nature of the data
but now let's see if what sharp should
be used based on what we want to show so
basically if you want to show some
distribution if you want to show the
variable it's maximum minimum value how
it behaves over time then you will use
violence histograms Rich spots and so on
if you want to show the correlation
between two more variables you will use
catapults for example and so on and so
on so there are many ways of showing
different things which you want to show
and that was more about like uh what you
want to show that was more about like
just taking reservation and making yeah
but if you want to make a profession of
it if you want to work in that
visualization as a specialist and use it
yeah then you would need some much much
more skills yeah I want to go into
someone details but I'll describe them
at least a week so for example that
realization is self-explanatory yeah but
for example if you want to make a
dashboard or some other complex
visualization you would need to know
experience interface design ux and many
other things because you need to
understand how to present data so people
are interested for example there are a
lot of dashboards which no one uses
because they have too many plots or the
ports are not understandable yeah it's
important to do it next point is
storytelling because one thing is when
you have some visualization you send it
to someone and that's it another point
is when you're making some presentation
so for example you're showing the
audience some thoughts and that is
describes them in this case it's
important to have storytelling when you
capture the audience you tell the story
and prove the points which you're making
there are many other things like
selecting good colors uh making the
books accessible for different groups of
people and so on and so on and one
separate and very important thing is
style guides so basically style guides
are some standards for formatting and
designing the graphs so basically they
show what graphs should be used in
specific cases what colors should be
used what formation should be used and
so on and so on usually there are some
templates to make it easy for people to
apply the science of the guide
usually these tailgates are created to
buy some organization to show that
people work in this organization who
made a similar plot yeah so for example
they could think have things like logo
brand colors language stones and so on
and so on so it makes uh it easier for
different people to make great
visualizations without spending too much
time on designing it and it provides
some uniformity yeah
so right now I talked a lot about the
theory but now let's move a bit into
practice
so for example if we have some kind of
not good visualization what are the
general ways of improving it first of
all we'll fix errors because there are
some mistakes in visualizations and this
is precisely what I will talk about a
bit later next to make it look better
because sometimes people choose bad
colors sometimes people don't don't show
the nested information
another point is crypto audience for
example if you show presentation for
technical people you would show the
information detailed analysis detailed
numbers but if you show the presentation
to some high-level audience to business
people you don't need all the details
you need to show the trends some general
high-level information yeah
so right now we will show several
examples of taking mediocre pots in the
province them most of them are from a
wonderful book storytelling with dated
by by called nothing
so let's take the first one let's try to
understand what do we see on the screen
so we have some survey yeah it seems
that people asked how do they feel about
doing science and there are some groups
of people yeah but I'm not sure what
exactly they also was supposed to show
in this visualization
so let's see how can this be improved
this is the same data but presented in a
different way so what is what is the
difference first of all we have a
different title and it shows us like
everything we have the title pilot
program was a success so we know that
this is about pilot programming we know
that it was successful and it was
complete yeah so it's much better much
more understandable next we have a few
recovers because when we have too many
colors it's difficult to concentrate
yeah here we have only several colors
yeah we have only important info and
it's more structure so basically let's
see on the both spots again here we will
see two pie charts and it's difficult to
compare the categories which were worse
which were good yeah and we don't really
understand what was the message but here
we can see that at first the people were
like okay before the program and now we
can see that most people are excited to
kind of Interest
so it's like this visualization it
accentuates the information it doesn't
distract you and it shows the main
message right now this is why it's
better
next one is this so basically it's the
quote about uh it demonstrates
Effectiveness that's the most important
consideration When selecting the
provider yeah but basically we like have
a lot of text on the screen it's
difficult to understand what we should
look at at first we have a lot of bars
and we are not sure what which of them
are more important yeah so what can be
done by time
you can see right now that the most
important information is highlighted in
the text so we now see that the code is
about attributes yeah this the survey
shows some results and which results are
the most important yeah this is the
source and we see three most important
parts so basically here we attract with
properly on purpose and track the
attention of the readers to the parts of
the port which are important yeah so
it's really good idea to do it
another case we have this plot Yeah so
basically it's some kind of line chart
of the time we see that something was
received something was processed and
that's it there is no other information
so obviously we need some other
information so what could we do
now we can see the clear message that we
have some action item please approve the
value to people we show that the number
of process and the received tickets were
almost the same so all the problems were
processed but after some event happened
two people left we see that the real
discrepancy so basically this chart
shows that there was a problem it shows
the consequences of this problem and it
shows how can the problem be solved so
it's like a perfect thing which is a
call to action we know what happened we
know what should we do yeah so it's like
an amazing thing I think
and the last example we can see that
here we see two bars we show the
population of U.S and the customers of
some company and we have some segments
with uh some of them highlighted yeah
but for me this is like uh not very
looking good looking how can this be
improved yeah first of all this text
they are aligned in the same way because
we don't have this like credit team with
different climate next we have less
colors and the most important parts are
highlighted so now we see or what is
what are the differences between them
yeah and it's much more aesthetically
okay this was about improving some
mediocre plots now let's talk about some
things which you shouldn't do at all on
the screen you can see a cargo notebook
this is just me scrolling it as you can
see it shows the distribution of some
feature and that's it so we have we see
like thousands or hundreds of plots they
are almost the same they don't have any
titles they don't have any comments they
don't have any analysis so it's like
it's very it isn't really useful so if
you want to do something useful okay so
in this case I would say that there are
two approaches to the generalized data
first one is for your own analysis and
the second is for demonstrating your
results when you're doing your own
analysis it could be okay to make dozens
of thoughts yeah but even in this case
you should like make titles make
descriptions for this box so that you
could say understand them yourself on
the other hand when you're presenting
something within your Publishers
notebook it is much better to have
several plots which are made with scare
which have explanations with share
analysis and some comments yeah so this
is uh this is what you should do instead
of this visualization
next point is that using the
three-dimensional plots is often not
very useful because it's like it's very
difficult to compare the things so for
example if we look at this plot if we
look at the column view but it's this
value can you guess it just by looking I
would say it's for example 14 but if we
pronounce lines it's certified so it's
like this visualization can be
misleading it could be difficult to
compare the things so try to avoid it
and the one more thing is like pie chart
pie charts in general are very like hot
debated topics some people say that no
one should use them some people say that
you should take care when using them but
anyway in this case when we have a
three-dimensional pie chart it's
extremely difficult to compare the
things like for example is B bigger than
C I have no idea from this chart so like
this could be useful like when the
different categories have clearly
different percentages yeah but when we
want to compare them then it's like not
very useful
and this is like a pretty different
topic
if you look at this plot you could think
that the difference was like extremely
huge like something draws the values
dropped and now is a much lower but if
you look at the values you can see that
the difference is around 10 percent yeah
so the authors on purpose cut of the
part of the visualization maybe he
wanted to mislead some people and uh to
make them think that the things are
different from the reality yeah so
please don't do it
now I want to show a couple of examples
of good visualizations here you can see
the link at the bottom of the screen
just do this visualization so basically
I think it's like an awesome
visualization it's first of all it's
like pleasing to the eye it has nice
colors next it has a lot of data so we
have categories we have two two groups
of people we have ages we have their
values for some variable and also we
have the highlight of the most important
part of the graph so it's like this plot
is concise it's aesthetically pleasing
and it prevents information a lot of
information is an understandable way
yeah
another plot from the same cargo
notebook it's like it uses a very cool
type of chart so basically when you want
to show the quantities or percentages of
some variable you could use some buyer
charts in this case we have multiple
variables multiple categories and we use
a stacked bar chart but if you used we
used like absolute values we would have
bar charts with very different heights
and it would be very difficult to
compare them but here we can see that
all the values sum up to 100 so it's
very easy to compare them yeah so it's
like an amazing tool showing how to
compare different values for many
categories
no this is an extremely simple but at
the same time like awesome chart it's a
pair plot from Seaborn so it shows a lot
of things it shows a variable
distribution it shows clusters of the
data based on the class it shows
configure interaction so it's like
extremely easy to use very aesthetically
pleasing and shows the very useful
information so for example we considered
one of the classes is very difficult
from the others yeah
uh this is a completely different type
of visualization it's a Kepler tool for
visualizing High dimensional
geographical data it was developed by
Uber so if you have like a lot of the
data a lot of geographical data which
you want to show on the plot it's a
perfect rule for this purpose because it
supports showing like millions of points
and it's very cool
now now I want to show how to use
visualizations for machine learning for
interpreting the models for showing the
models and so on this tool you can see a
visualization from a library called shop
so it's for explaining machine learning
models uh you can see here that there
are like multiple things shown on the
screen when you see this Library it
could be pretty difficult to understand
it but after you get used to it it's
like awesome because it shows a lot of
information in a conscious way basically
it shows that for example High although
values of some variable how do they
contribute to the Target variable so for
example if we have some classification
for a binary we have two classes and we
see that blue values are on the left
part of the screen then we say that the
low is this value variable the more
chances that the class is zero the
higher this variable the high chance of
this class is one some other variables
are different yes they're open so it's
like it's easy to put and it's very
useful pointer opening things and that
often is used for industry it's really a
business key to understand it so it can
be used and it very it really helps to
explain people how the models work
this is another type of Port it ports
modern buildings so there are many ways
to create more than weddings like Fast
text Perth and many other things but
usually they have a huge dimensionality
like 300 values 700 values or more so
you can't compare them directly but if
you do some dimensionality reduction and
put them in two-dimensional space you
can see some awesome scenes so here you
see different clusters you can see that
some words belong to specific groups and
you can understand them much better
yeah
uh next this is the the screenshot from
weights and biases weights and biases is
a cool library and like local new
library it's like huge platform for
login machine learning model training
for example here you can see that
someone made a heapers parameter of
optimization for some gradient boosting
model yes or maybe no I think it's for
neural Nets so and the main thing is
like you can see on the left part of the
screen different experiments and you can
select only several of them you can see
how different keeper parameters
influence the accuracy and you can see
that some of them
have have like high values of the first
variable they have a high impact on
accuracy some have low impact you can
see that some of the parameters have
like values and uh like some here
parameters have a higher influence on
the model performance are lower so it's
better to optimize only some of them you
can see the best performance you can see
compare training plots for different
brands so it's like an extremely great
visualization and it's used in practice
for comparing the models
this is sharper game and it can be used
not only for tabular data but also for
some neural Nets so in this case it's
for Imaging we can say that when we have
this image it's a photo of an apple and
the strawberry when we try to predict a
strawberry we can see that some part of
the image is very important like it's
logical but when we try to predict some
completely different classes then there
is nothing useful in the image and we
can see that nothing is highlighted
another tool which is also used for
analysis analyzing the images and the
models for images use grotcom basically
it shows activations on different layers
of the network so you can see that for
example we try to do something with an
image of pizza and you can see that
different parts of neural net highlight
different parts of the images so this
way you can see how some internal layers
of neural network work yeah it's pretty
cool and can be useful to improve the
model performance
this is a different tool it's called
neuron it shows it can show the model
structure it's the model agnostic it's
like framework agnostic so you can use
it for by torch for tensorflow for
carrots for some other libraries you can
use it for on a mix and for many other
formats and it will show the structure
of the neural net in details yeah so
there are some inbuilt capabilities and
different Frameworks for making
visualizations of the structure but here
you can see it's like presented in a
very nice way and it's easy to look at
it to share it and so on so it's like a
great tool
uh now this was most of the things that
I wanted to say yeah you can see there
are several pages with references so you
can see the examples of the plots you
can see the code from the plots which I
may which I showed to you you can see
some additional thoughts and uh some
blog posts about them also if you are
interested like in pursuing that
visualization more seriously I would
suggest joining data visualization
Society it's a huge Society of
professionals working in naturalization
industry yeah I'm part of it and it's
pretty interesting and cool
so these were the things which I wanted
to talk about like so that resolution is
an interesting topic like it can be
interesting both in theoretical and
practical matters there's a lot of ways
to make simple visualizations there are
a lot of ways to make some awesome
visualizations and it's up to you to
decide where you want to draw the line
and to make the plot yeah so these are
my contacts I hope this talk was
interesting to you and now I can answer
the questions because if you're left in
the chat
do you want me to read out the questions
or how do you want to do this
I can agree with myself if you are oh
okay it isn't sure
sorry sir but uh I'd request you to read
out the questions as well so that the
larger audience knows what the question
is about
okay yes so I'll start with the
questions from the chat and then I'll
move to the Q a section
okay sorry please uh I mean the
questions will will take all the
questions to the question and answer you
needn't worry about the chat section
okay sure so okay
first one uh how do you connect data
visualizations from python in to nice
infographics so I think I showed the
some examples of the plots in my
presentations basically if you want to
make some interactive plots you would
use broadly or for example Tire if you
want to use some simple mobile flexible
plots you could use for example metal
clip the examples we showed are pretty
basic but it's really possible to make
very nice infographics in MacBook leap
but interactive is yeah it's more about
broadly bokeh and Altair for example
um the next question can we make
visualization model of data like
progressing of spreading disease and
timeline on the map with real data or
how we could do that or where we could
find how to do that
yeah it's pretty possible I would think
that there are well right now I can
think about two approaches so for
example in Python there are two
libraries which a good mention the first
one is again probably another one is
volume so following is a library for
um showing visualizations of
geographical data so basically it has a
map and you can do anything on it and it
supports uh supports different widgets
and for example it it has some time
access so basically you can make like a
lot of visualizations for each point of
time so basically you have your data set
and you have a column showing some point
of them for example the date and then
you will be able to make putting volume
where you will be able to show to move
the slider of the time and show show how
the disease is spread over the time and
something similar could be done in
broadly it isn't supposed to be used for
with all this in geographical data but
there are some plugins and support for
it and I also use it for showing some
geodata so it's pretty possible yeah you
can find it for example living in cargo
um the next question is what do we use
nowadays for interactive dashboards
uh as I already said for example in
Python it's uh Dash in R it's uh would
be shining also if you use Python right
now there is an awesome Library called
stream leap it allows you to make uh
like to make websites very easily and of
course uh you could include
visualizations in them and the it's very
easy to publish your like what you do
and it's very easy to make like several
tabs several plots several
visualizations so I suggest trying
streamlined it's widely used for showing
some kind of analysis it's used in
organization and I use them for example
in my in my current company too
yeah so that's it
uh next question is I also worry about
which color combinations to use in
graphs uh do you have any tips and
tricks about color combinations can I
keep using same combinations for all my
graphs thanks yeah so first of all if
you look at the references in my slides
you will see several links to the
articles about selecting uh like colors
for the visualization basically I would
say is there are three General
approaches the first one is that you use
some color maps from the library so for
example in R and in Python in most
libraries you could select some color
map so color map is uh is like it
defines the colors used in the
visualization and the Styles so you can
just use one of the popular Styles and
it will be fine yeah so you don't you
won't be you won't have to select every
color by yourself
another point is when you select the
columns by yourself each time for each
plot it's very time consuming but it
could be satisfying but again as you
answered asked if it's possible to use
the same combination for all the graphs
yes it would be like your own style
guide so you at first decide that for
example you like using I don't know uh
yellow and green colors on your plugs
yeah then you would Define them in some
settings of your library and you use
them by yourself later so it will be
like your own personal style guide and
those people who make visualizations
professionally often have their own
style so it's like a great idea it's
good that it's not about it
uh next question
how would you present sharp values for
121 features top to 80 covered by 77 of
the feature
I would say that it's like a lot of
features first of all I'm not sure if
you would really need all of them yeah
because it's like too many fishes but if
we really need to show all of them I
would do something like that first of
all I would calculate shape values then
I would make two separate clothes one
for example for top 10 or top 20 fishes
because they're most important they have
the most impact and the second thought
for the rest of the features so
basically people who don't have enough
attention will just look at the first
plot and people who have enough time and
attention will look at the second clock
so I think it will work
um
which visualization tool is best power
bi Tableau operation libraries
I would say that it depends on the
purpose like it would depend on how many
time how much time do you have at hand
how much experience do you have these
programming languages and what is used
in your company so for example if you
work in some company usually they
already have some software for making
visualization so for example if in a
company it's commonly accepted that
everyone should use Tableau or everyone
should use power bi to present uh close
to each other then like you won't have
much choice you will have to use it yeah
next point if you're comfortable with
using programming languages then you of
course can use right person libraries
the only question is will be how would
you show this plot so you can't expect
people just to launch YouTube feature
notebook and look at it you will either
have to share screenshots or you will
have to post your code in some way yeah
so it's like really depends on the use
case
um
the next question do you have a roadmap
for becoming a databilization expert
um
I don't have really a roadmap but for
example on one of my slides there was an
information about which skills do you
need for
to become an expert in that
visualization you could just use it like
at the start and then research how to
improve your skills in each of the areas
I mentioned in this slide
um next question is you showed us a lot
of good examples but how can you create
it often I see that such full charts are
made with uh in this in the skin or
something like that because Japan and Co
are too limited what do you prefer yes
this is a good point and I mentioned
that the most beautiful visualizations
are usually created by rent or in visual
visual editors yeah but again for
example I showed this uh several slides
with cool data visualizations I think
the for example that these
visualizations like look pretty good and
you can use you can make them
importantly you can see the link at the
bottom of the screen yeah but yeah if
you want to make something perfect you
would need to delve deeper so one of the
options is using day 3.js you will have
to learn JavaScript but you will be able
to produce amazing database validation
yeah uh if you want to
you will have to do it by hand or by
using some visual editor so like if you
have a lot of time and like uh your job
is about creating it for utilizations
you will have to do it but if
visualization is like a small a small or
well not very small but like only one of
the parts of a drop it's like much more
efficient to use the libraries like
visual button python or uh but broadly
and just find a good color scheme to use
to use and show
[Music]
um
the next question is are there any
resources to develop storytelling skill
it's difficult to say because basically
storytelling is like a combination of
various skills first of all it's about
creating the good presentation or good
resultation itself another one is
like having some good presentation
skills capturing your audience making
good accents noticing when your audience
become like more bored and like like in
living in them it's also about being
able to make a good story so I would
suppose that you need to understand what
is storytelling is about which skills do
you need to create a storytelling so
like I said good presentation creating
the presentation oratory skills uh
understanding the audience and then work
on each of the skills step by step yeah
um next question
about classical switch engineering
very often there are similar steps can
you advise some after email framework
for visual validation I know Picard has
something but maybe other
as far as I know there is a pandas
profiling it's a cool Library which will
show a lot of visualizations for your
variables most of them will be like
monotonics new edit so like
visualization only for single feature
but it's pretty good it shows a lot of
Statistics a lot of visualization so
it's a great start so you could try it
[Music]
um
next question I am fresh out of which
visualization too you prefer to me then
I would say just use Python and Seaborn
for example almost it will be a good
start
uh and another question is uh
sometimes I find it difficult to select
the type of photograph can you elaborate
or give more tips on when and which type
of Charities visualization like for time
series that which one to use and when we
group the data then which one previews
I had a section in my presentation about
different ways of equalizing the data so
like this for example if you have some
cream series there is some specific
types of visualization if you have like
network data there are other types of
visualization in the reference section
you can find the links to this plot you
will be able to see all the plot it's
like I wasn't able to make a full
screenshot because the plot is very huge
yeah but you will be able to see which
visualization should you use in which
case so it's like uh you will be able to
find this information by references
[Music]
um
okay
next question is which is better to show
correlation cutter plots or heat Maps
basically I would say they are both to
good things but they depend on the
nature of your data so for example if
you have two numerical variables to
continuous variables it's much easier to
use the scatter plot between them yeah
but heat map is I would say it's uh it's
better when you have some categories so
for example you have two categorical
variables and you want to show the
values of color across like different
values of the combinations of these two
features then it would be easier to use
a heat map
um so it was two questions
next one what to do if I didn't find the
influential factors in the date to know
in order to predict the right decision
and what is the best tool to know the
factors
[Music]
um
I would say that okay so I suppose it's
more about machine learning so basically
uh we need we need to know the most
influential features in the data to make
the model yeah uh I would say that if
you want to start then you can simply
train some model for example if you step
over data you could just take some
gradient boosting model or in the forest
you train it then you use for example
shop or some other library to see Fisher
importance and you can consider this uh
which is to be most influential then you
could create some features and see that
maybe the new features will be even
better than the additional ones
um another question this is a very
beautiful presentation may we have it or
code being used in the presentation
uh yes of course I will share the link
with the hosts and they will share it
with everyone using email so you will
have the link to the whole presentation
and every content in it
I see some people raise hands so how how
do we manage it
um most of the uh raised hands I mean
the questions they had have been put
into the Q a section
um so that's pretty much it so
okay if anyone has any questions you can
again post them on the Q a and I will
answer them yes guys we have a couple
more minutes as well uh to anyone if you
have questions if you do please post
those questions in the Q a section
um there were actually a couple of
people's people who have raised their
hands and I had asked them to put their
questions in the Q a section so
um and for all others uh just wanted to
let you know
we have put up a feedback poll please do
fill in
okay so you have a question here
it's the question please post quote and
the presentation it will be sent okay
see guys we've repeatedly told you all
that you'll get these files via a mail
so don't worry about it
um so um I guess that's the end of it uh
thank you thank you Mr Luke and Uncle
thanks for the session
um on behalf of analytics video I'd like
to uh thank you for your time and for
you know delivering such wonderful
knowledge
um and also for being patient with all
these questions we had I must say
a bit more questions than we usually do
um
and I hope you have a wonderful day in
Moscow
I'd also like to thank our audience for
being with us until the end so once
again thank you sir
and thank you also it was very
interesting and it was nice seeing so
many questions and being able to answer
them oh we'll be glad you'll be happy
have a great day
engaging with my
okay everyone thank you for being here
uh hope to see you all again
um again have a wonderful day ahead
thank you
[Music]
