[Music]
quantum computing has demonstrated a lot
of exciting potential to accelerate
machine learning and data science
applications in the future there are
already a number of known speed ups of
classical algorithms the the exciting
area that I see though is not only the
speed up but of looking at problems in
an entirely different way quantum
computing is probabilistic by nature
which Maps very well to machine learning
problems because we're not making a
model that is the exact best fit for the
data we want to do one that is a
probabilistic fit for future data one
that generalizes well to future data and
so quantum computing allows us to get
multiple probabilistic solutions that we
can then examine and look at the one
that has the best utility to actually
deploy as a model so that the speed-up
potential is immense I'm excited about
what I can do and
and a number of other applications but
also again developing algorithms and
methods that are quantum specific rather
than just improving known classical
methods
