we've all heard about Quantum Computing
but what is it really quantum computers
can process information at speeds that
are faster than traditional computers
making them capable of Performing
calculations that would take billions of
years on a conventional machine but
there's more watch the whole video folks
you will know everything about the
fascinating world of quantum Computing
and how this cuttingedge technology
could impact the development of
artificial intelligence let's get
started so what is quantum computing
Quantum Computing is about using the
principles of quantum theory which
describes the behavior of energy and
matter at the atomic and subatomic
levels to develop a new type of
computing you know rather than relying
on traditional binary encoding where
bits can either be zero or one Quantum
Computing harnesses the properties of
subatomic particles such as electrons or
photons to operate with Quantum bits or
cubits these cubits possess the
remarkable ability to exist in multiple
States States
simultaneously essentially embodying
both one and zero concurrently unlike
classical computers that encode
information through a binary system of
electrical impulses Quantum Computing
exploits phenomena in quantum physics to
revolutionize computation cubits the
fundamental units of quantum Computing
Define the binary constraints of
classical bits enabling to inhabit
multi-dimensional States consequently
the computational power of quantum
computers scales exponentially with the
addition of more cubits far surpassing
the linear growth of classical computers
as they increase in bit capacity the
Inception of quantum Computing dates
back to the 1980s when researchers
discovered that certain computational
challenges could be more efficiently
addressed using Quantum algorithms than
classical methods this Cutting Edge
technology holds immense potential in
navigating vast arrays of possibilities
to discern Solutions to complex problems
now at the heart of quantum computing's
incredible power lie two fundamental
principles from quantum physics
superposition and entanglement
superposition enables cubits to hold
Quantum information in a state
encompassing all possible configurations
simultaneously Paving the way for the
creation of intricate multi-dimensional
computational
spaces think of flipping a coin in our
world it's either heads or tails once it
lands but in Quantum superposition it's
as if the coin is spinning in the air
both heads and tails at once until you
check this means a quantum computer can
consider multiple outcomes at the same
time vastly speeding up its ability to
solve complex problems entanglement on
the other hand allows pairs of cubits to
become interconnected in such a manner
that the state of one cubit directly
influences the state of the other
facilitating predictable correlations
between them by harnessing superposition
cubits can explore a multitude of
potential Solutions at the same time
vastly expanding the computational
landscape furthermore entanglement
empowers Quantum algorithms to tackle
complex Problems by exploiting the
interconnectedness between cubits
leading to exponential enhancements in
computing power and efficiency in
contrast to classical computers where
increasing bit capacity yields
incremental improvements in processing
power the addition of cubits to a
quantum computer results in exponential
advancements in computational capacity
adding to that you should also know that
classical computers excel at everyday
tasks with minimal error rates while
quantum computers offer unparallel
capabilities for complex tasks like
simulations data analysis such as
chemical or drug trials and designing
energy efficient batteries albeit with
higher error rates you know unlike
classical computers which typically
require basic cooling mechanisms like
internal fans Quantum processors demand
meticulous protection from even the
slightest vibrations and must operate at
extremely low temperatures using super
cooled super fluids interestingly in a
landmark achievement in 2019 Google was
able to prove that a quantum computer
could solve a problem within minutes
that would take a classical computer
10,000 years to solve as of today Google
is investing billions of dollars in into
building its quantum computer by 2029
with the establishment of a Google AI
campus in California dedicated to this
endeavor once completed Google aims to
offer Quantum Computing Services via the
cloud and we will see what
happens okay up to now which aspects of
quantum Computing excites you the most
is it the speed the power or something
else let us know uses of quantum
Computing so this Cutting Edge
technology holds immense potential
across various sectors from bolstering
security to revolutionizing finance and
healthare in the security sector Quantum
Computing promises advancements in
Secure information sharing and enhancing
radar systems for missiles and aircraft
detection moreover its application in
Environmental Protection particularly in
maintaining water quality through
chemical sensors showcases its broader
societal impact also in the fight
against climate change Quantum Computing
could model complex environmental
systems offering insights into how we
might reduce carbon emissions or develop
more efficient renewable energy sources
Quantum algorithms are also being tested
in traffic Management Systems to reduce
congestion and improve efficiency for
instance Volkswagen has experimented
with Quantum Computing to optimize
traffic flow in cities potentially
reducing commute times and pollution in
finance Quantum Computing offers the
prospect of crafting more robust
investment portfolios and refining
trading simulations which can lead to
improved fraud detection mechanisms this
Technology's computational prowess can
be harnessed to tackle complex Financial
algorithms and optimize decision-making
processes for both retail and
institutional investors of course the
healthcare industry also stands to
benefit significantly from Quantum
computing's capabilities with potential
breakthroughs and Drug Discovery and
personalized Medicine by accelerating
DNA research and facilitating the the
development of genetically targeted
therapies Quantum Computing could pave
the way for more effective treatments
and interventions when it comes to
enhancing cyber security Quantum
Computing enables the development of
advanced encryption methods and
intrusion detection systems using light
signals these Innovations are crucial
for safeguarding sensitive data and
mitigating cyber threats in an
increasingly interconnected digital
landscape furthermore in fields like
aerospace engineering and transportation
plan planning Quantum Computing can
drive the design of more efficient and
safer aircraft as well as optimized
traffic Management systems for enhanced
mobility and
sustainability okay quick break folks if
you find this video has been helpful and
has improved your understanding of what
Quantum Computing is please hit the like
button to support us it would be
immensely helpful all right let's dive
back in the increasing interest in
Quantum Computing is evident with the
research indicating that a significant
percentage of large companies including
Google like I already mentioned are
already making plans to embark on
initiatives centered around this
transformative technology by
2025 well people which industry do you
think will be the most transformed by
Quantum Computing and more importantly
why limitations of quantum
Computing so decoherence is basically
the ailles heal of quantum Computing it
means everything can go haywi with the
smallest changes in the cubits
surroundings imagine trying to solve a
puzzle while someone keeps jostling the
table yeah not exactly the best is it
this vulnerability means quantum
computers must operate in isolation
shielded from any external interference
akin to the delicate inner workings of a
Swiss watch but uh far more complex
error correction is another hurdle on
the quantum track in the digital realm
when a bit flips it's a straightforward
fix but in the quantum world where
cubits dance to a different from beat
errors are a trickier Affair current
error correction methods struggle to
keep Pace with the quantum Jitterbug
leaving computations potentially
unreliable like trying to navigate
through a fog with a faulty Compass
despite these obstacles strides are
being made in algorithms designed to
mitigate errors and enhance accuracy of
quantum computations for instance
specific database search algorithms show
Promise by leveraging Quantum properties
to yield correct answers even amid
decoherence another area of focus is
quantum cryptography which aims to
harness Quantum properties for secure
communication while still under
development Quantum cryptography holds
the potential to revolutionize data
security by leveraging the principles of
quantum mechanics but perhaps the
biggest hurdle of all is the lack of
cubits to unleash the full power of
quantum Computing researchers strive to
increase the number of cubits beyond the
current threshold which stands at around
28 cubits moreover the environmental
conditions required for Quantum
Computing add another layer of
complexity quantum computers demand
ultra low temperatures and highly
controlled environments to maintain
Cubit stability and prevent data
corruption achieving and maintaining
such conditions present significant
engineering challenges but are essential
for the success of quantum Computing
systems but thanks to artificial
intelligence Quantum Computing is about
to get more interesting interesting
Quantum Computing and
AI you see the fusion of quantum
Computing and AI promises a
revolutionary leap in data processing
speed quantum computers can crunch data
faster than conventional ones enabling
AI systems to learn and adapt at
unprecedented rates by harnessing
quantum entanglement algorithms can tap
into intricate correlations between
variables enhancing their predictive
capabilities and decision-making prowess
complex optimiz ation problems which
stump traditional computers are no match
for Quantum Computing this capability
augments AI algorithms potentially
empowering them to achieve levels of
intelligence previously unattainable
unlike classical systems Quantum
Computing operates outside the confines
of classical physics laws opening doors
to new Realms of computational power and
AI Innovation moreover the scalability
and efficiency afforded by quantum
computers pav the way for the creation
of more sophisticated AI Frameworks
capable of tackling increasingly complex
tasks with ease but that's not all the
unique computational abilities of this
technology unlock new avenues for AI
algorithm development algorithms
leveraging Quantum Computing techniques
such as Shaw's algorithm for factoring
large numbers or simulating Quantum
systems efficiently Heralds a new era of
AI Innovation and problem solving
prowess Quantum analing presents another
Avenue for addressing computational
intractable Problems by leveraging
quantum computers AI systems can explore
solutions to challenges that defy
classical computation validating the
results with unprecedented accuracy and
reliability now in the realm of lifelong
learning Quantum Computing offers a
game-changing Advantage unlike classical
neural networks which are prone to
catastrophic forgetting Quantum systems
exhibit remarkable resilience this
characteristic makes makes them ideal
for continual learning scenarios where
adapting to new information without
compromising existing knowledge is
Paramount Quantum Computing also
fortifies AI systems against security
threats leveraging Quantum principles
such as superposition and parallel
processing AI can Safeguard sensitive
data more effectively Additionally the
ability to exist in multiple States
simultaneously grants quantum computers
A Unique Edge in devising robust
cybercity algorithm
you know in this age of expanding data
volumes companies are no longer
restricted by conventional Computing
Technologies for examining intricate
situations these Enterprises demand
Advanced models capable of analyzing
diverse scenarios projections suggest
that by 2025 the healthcare sector's
data generation will increase at a
compound annual rate of 36% outpacing
manufacturing Financial Services
Logistics and e-commerce by 6% %
leveraging Quantum Computing and AI to
enhance model development could
potentially enhance illness treatment
mitigate Financial risks and enhance
coordination so guys what do you think
is quantum Computing the key to our
biggest challenges or could it bring
unforeseen issues drop a Quantum in the
comments to let us know you watch the
whole video see you in the next one
folks and you all take
care
