hello everyone and welcome to this video
on Predictive Analytics by simply learn
are you a business professional looking
to stay out of the competition or are
you looking for a way to make data
driven decisions that can help you drive
growth for your organizations well
there's a solution and it is Predictive
Analytics but what exactly is Predictive
Analytics and how can it help you make
better decisions for your business well
Predictive Analytics is a type of data
analysis that helps organizations
predict future events by identifying
patterns and prints in historical data
by using mathematical and statistical
algorithms companies can analyze large
data sets and identify patterns and
prints that can be used to predict
future outcomes and this can be applied
to a wide range of business functions as
well from marketing to finance to Supply
Chain management in this video we will
dive deeper into the world of relative
analytics we will explain the different
type of models using Predictive
Analytics and how can they be applied to
various business functions we'll also
discuss the potential challenges
involved in implementing creative
analytics and provide tips on how to
overcome them as well so whether you are
a business professional or a data
analyst don't miss out on this
opportunity to learn more about relative
analytics so let's get started having
said that if you want to upskill
yourself and want to learn more about
productive analytics then simply learns
postgraduate program and data analytics
can be the right option for you this
data analytics program in partnership
with Purdue University leverages produce
academic excellence in data analytics
and simple learns collaboration with IBM
provides a comprehensive overview of
data analytics its tools and techniques
overall so First Act your career with
this comprehensive data analytics
program curriculum which covers the
concepts of statistic Foundation
analyzing data using Python and our
languages interacting with databases
using SQL and visualizing the data using
Tableau and power bi to much more so why
we take a step further towards a
rewarding career in data analytics which
simply learns postgraduate program and
data analytics the course link is added
in the description box below so make
sure you check that out so without any
further Ado let's get started with
today's topic today so have you ever
experienced the frustration of
meticulously planning a long journey
only to have your plans distributed by
factors beyond your control imagine
preparing to leave your home only to
find a flat tire on your car or
encountering a Motorway accident causing
a 30 minutes delay these are just a few
examples of the unexpected events that
can force you to alter your plans by
analyzing historical data current
conditions and various external factors
you can identify these potential risks
or disruptions in advance and plan your
journey accordingly so this is where
Predictive Analytics coming to picture
to help predict what might happen in the
near future so let us dive deep into
what productive analytics is and how it
can be helpful for you so what is
predictive analysis now predict analysis
is a branch of data analytics that
utilizes historical data statistical
algorithms and machine learning
techniques to make predictions and
forecast future outcomes it involves
extracting valuable insights from large
data sets to identify patterns friends
and relationships that can be used to
anticipate future events or Behavior now
for example in the context of travel
Predictive Analytics can be used to
analyze historical traffic patterns
whether data and other related factors
to estimate the likelihood of congestion
accidents or other delays along a
planned route now this information can
then be used to adjust travel plans
choose alternative routes or make
informed decisions to mitigate the
impact of potential disruptions now why
Predictive Analytics is important now
Predictive Analytics has emerged as a
vital tool in today's data-driven
landscape revolutionizing the way
organizations operate and make decisions
so here are the key reasons why
Predictive Analytics is of Paramount
importance first one is anticipating the
future outcomes now Predictive Analytics
empowers organizations to Pure into the
future with a higher level of certainty
by analyzing historical and real-time
data identifying patterns and applying
Advanced algorithms productive analytics
enables accurate predictions and
forecasts this foresight helps
organizations make proactive and
informed decisions mitigating any sort
of risk optimizing operation and seizing
the opportunities strategic decision
making comparative analytics equipped
decision makers with valuable insights
and objective evidence it enables them
to move Beyond instincts and subjective
judgment relying instead on data driven
predictions with a comprehensive
understanding of the likely outcomes of
various choices organizations can chart
a strategic course that maximizes
profitability efficiency customer
satisfaction and overall success and
finally customer understanding and
personalization in today's hyper
competitive market understanding
customers is key to success right so
operative analytics help organization
gain a deeper understanding of customer
Behavior their preferences and their
overall needs by analyzing vast amounts
of customer data organizations can
segment Their audience identify buying
patterns and offer personalized
experiences products and other services
this enhances customer satisfaction and
ultimately drives Revenue growth for the
organizations so moving ahead let us
discuss how does Predictive Analytics
work so firstly data scientists or data
analysts Define the problem now the
journey of Predictive Analytics begin
with clearly defining the problem at
hand whether it's fraud detection
inventory optimization or predicting
potential flood levels a well-defined
problem statement helps determine the
appropriate productive analytics
approach to employee now once you define
a problem it is important to acquire and
organize data properly now we all know
data is the live blood of Predictive
Analytics organizations may have vast
amounts of historical data or
continually streaming data from various
sources like customer interactions so
the first step is to identify and
acquire the relevant data and then
organize it in a central repository such
as a data warehouse or a bigquery to
frustrate efficient data processing now
after that you need to pre-process data
now raw data is rarely is an ideal state
for analysis right so before developing
predictive models data needs to be
pre-processed properly this involves
cleaning the data to remove any kind of
anomalies handling missing data points
and addressing extreme outliers that
could be caused by errors and input or
measurements pre-processing ensures that
the data is of high quality and ready
for model development next you have to
develop predictive models now what I
mean by that data scientists or data
analysts leverage a range of tools or
techniques to develop predictive models
based on the problem statement and the
nature of the data set now machine
learning algorithms regression models
decision trees neural networks are much
more among the common used approaches
for this these models are trained on the
prepared data to identify correlations
and patterns that can be used for making
predictions and finally validate and
deploy results now model validation is a
critical step to access the accuracy and
reliability of predictions data
scientists rigorously evaluate the
model's performance against known
outcomes or test data sets if necessary
adjustments are made to improve the
morals accuracy once the model achieve
satisfactory results it can be deployed
to deliver predictions to stakeholders
this can be done through applications
websites or data dashboards making the
insights easily accessible to decision
makers so by following all these steps
data scientists or data analyst can
create robust predictive analytic
Frameworks that Empower organizations to
make data driven decisions optimize
operations and gain a competitive
advantage in their respective domains
now we have talked about data models a
lot previously right so what exactly are
data models and why we need to use data
models in Predictive Analytics now data
models are user Predictive Analytics for
several reasons firstly understanding
data relationships now data models help
in understanding the relationship
between different variables and entities
in a data sets by defining the structure
and connections between data elements
models provide a clear representation of
how different factors relate to each
other this understanding is crucial for
developing accurate predictive models
secondly feature selection operative
analytics software involves selecting
the most relevant features or variables
that have a significant impact on the
outcome being predicted right so data
models help in identifying these
relevant features by analyzing their
relationships dependencies or any sort
of core relationships with the target
variable so this helps in eliminating
unnecessary or irrelevant features
reducing noise and improving the
accuracy of a predictive model thirdly
data preparation and transformation now
before applying Predictive Analytics
techniques data often needs to be
pre-processed transformed and cleaned
data models provide a blueprint for
these data preparation steps they Define
the structure and format of data specify
data types handle missing values and
establish rules for data normalization
or scaling data models ensure that data
is in a suitable form for analysis which
is essential for accurate predictions
next algorithm selection now different
predictive analytic algorithms have
specific requirements and assumptions
about the structure and format of data
so choosing a right algorithm is must so
data models provide insights into the
characteristics of the data such as its
distribution scale relationships which
can guide the selection of appropriate
algorithms for example linear regression
assumes a linear relationship between
variables while decision trees handle
categorical variables well data models
help in align these data with the
algorithms requirement as per the need
next interpretability and transparency
data models provide a visual
representation of data relationships
making them easier to understand and
interpret this is essentially important
for business stakeholders who need to
complement the underlying factors
driving predictions a well-defined data
model allows stakeholders to validate
the model's assumptions evaluate the
impact of different variables or
outcomes and gain insights into the
decision making process and finally
iterative development and Improvement
Predictive Analytics is often an
iterative process where models are built
evaluated and refile multiple times it
facilitates this hydrating development
framework by providing and organizing
the documenting the data analysis
process they enable trying changes
documenting assumptions and storing
metadata related to data Transformations
and feature engineering so data models
help building upon various works and
continuously improving the productive
models so let us now discuss some of the
various types of productive analytical
models that you can use creative
analytics models are used to analyze
historical data and make predictions
about future events or outcomes so there
are several types of relative analytical
models including classification model
now classification models are used to
predict categorical outcomes or group
data into predefined classes now example
include logistic regression decision
trees random Forest support Vector
machines and others next we have
regression models regression models are
used to predict a continuous outcome
variable based on one or more
independent variables and examples for
this include linear regression multiple
regression and polynomial regression
third we have Western model now
clustering models are used to group
similar data points together based on
their characteristics or patterns and
examples of clustering models include
k-means clustering hierarchical
clustering and much more next we have
time series model now time series models
are used to predict future values based
on patterns and historical time
dependent data now examples include Auto
regressive integrated moving average or
in short Ari ma model and exponential
smoothing models and finally neural
network models now these are some of the
advanced kind of operative analytical
models that you can use such as feed
forward neural networks or recurrent
neural networks RN are CNN are used to
predict complex data patterns and
relationships in a data the particularly
effective for tasks like image
recognitions natural language processing
and sequence predictions so these are
some of the main types of predictive
analytical models that you can use but
having all that said where we can use a
Predictive Analytics in real life so let
us now discuss some of the real life use
cases of Predictive Analytics which you
can use in a day-to-day basis so firstly
financial analysis or banking sectors
now productive analytics is used for
credit scoring fraud detection risk
assessment and investment analysis it
helps financial institutions main data
demand decisions detect suspicious
activities and identify potential Market
prints now Predictive Analytics is also
extensively used in sales and marketing
as well now Predictive Analytics plays a
crucial roles in sales and marketing by
providing invaluable insights and help
organizations make data driven decisions
threat Dev analytics model analyze
historical sales data market trends
customer behavior and external factors
to forecast future sales which will in
turn help organizations plan their
resources set realistic sales targets
and allocate budget effectively
manufacturing and Supply Chain
management now productive analytics
helps in optimizing production processes
predicting equipment failures and
managing supply chain Logistics by
analyzing historical data and real-time
information manufacturers can improve
operational efficiency reduce downtime
and optimize inventory levels Healthcare
now operative analytics can also be used
to identify patients at risk of
developing certain diseases improve
diagnosis accuracy and personalized
treatment plans it also helps hospitals
optimize resource allocation predict
patient flow and forecast disease
outbreaks well in advance and finally we
have retail and e-commerce creative
analytics is also used for demand
forecasting Inventory management and
customer segmentations retailers can
create customer Behavior optimize
pricing strategies and personalized
marketing campaigns to enhance customer
satisfaction and increase overall sales
so these are some of the real life
applications where creative analytics
can be used now the future of creative
analytics is driven by advancement in
technology the availability of vast
amounts of data and the increasing need
for data type decision making as
organizations continue to harness the
power of Predictive Analytics they can
gain a Competitive Edge optimize
operations and deliver enhanced customer
experience so that was Predictive
Analytics in a nutshell I hope you
understood that guys and with that you
have come to the end of today's session
on what is Predictive Analytics thank
you for watching the video guys if you
found this tutorial informative and
helpful give it a thumbs up and share
with your friends and colleagues if you
have any further queries regarding any
of the concepts or topics or in today's
tutorial feel free to let us know in the
comment section below and a team of
Expos will be more than happy to help us
all their queries at the earliest until
next time stay safe thank you and keep
learning
staying ahead in your career requires
continuous learning and upskilling
whether you're a student aiming to learn
today's top skills or a working
professional looking to advance your
career we've got you covered explore our
impressive catalog of certification
programs in Cutting Edge domains
including data science cloud computing
cyber security AI machine learning or
digital marketing designed in
collaboration with leading universities
and top corporations and delivered by
industry experts choose any of our
programs and set yourself on the path to
Career Success click the link in the
description to know more
hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learned YouTube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos turn it up and get certified
click here
foreign
