second,duration,transcript
1.97,3.789,hey guys welcome to the session by Intellipaat in today's video we'll be
5.759,4.17,"discussing the differences between agile
and waterfall both methodologies that"
9.929,4.561,"are used to develop software okay before
we go ahead please make sure that you"
14.49,3.36,"subscribe and hit the bell icon so you
don't miss any for future updates okay"
17.85,4.05,"now let's take a quick glance at our
agenda first we will talk about what"
21.9,4.35,"exactly agile is and what exactly
Waterfall is and then we will discuss"
26.25,5.279,"the impact both of these methodologies
have had in the industry after which we"
31.529,3.931,"will go ahead and set a few parameters
that we will use as criteria to compare"
35.46,4.189,"both of them and finally we will
conclude by deciding which one is better"
39.649,3.73,"also guys if you're looking for
end-to-end training in agile we do"
43.379,3.061,"provide the same for any further details
check out the links given in the"
46.44,4.11,"description below okay now let's start
the session okay guys before we go ahead"
50.55,4.23,"and compare both of these methodologies
let us first have an overview of what"
54.78,4.799,"software development is now we know
software development is a very long and"
59.579,4.591,"arduous process why because there are
lot of things you need to do when you're"
64.17,3.239,"working with software and when you're
especially developing software there are"
67.409,3.39,"multiple components you need to take
care of the deadlines you need to"
70.799,4.11,"perform different analysis like risk
analysis cost analysis you have to"
74.909,3.691,"follow all the phases there are you have
to plan it out you have to then develop"
78.6,4.559,"it you have to implement it deploy it
and monitor it now to make sure that you"
83.159,4.32,"are able to develop a software properly
and in time and efficiently you need to"
87.479,4.171,"follow a particular software development
methodology now there are multiple ones"
91.65,4.23,"out there like for example you have
waterfall model your spiral model as a"
95.88,4.59,"model scrum and lead now these software
development methodologies basically help"
100.47,4.649,"to plan out the whole software
development lifecycle now each of these"
105.119,4.171,"methodologies promote different things
and in this video we'll be comparing the"
109.29,4.41,"two methodologies that are waterfall
model and agile model so we will start"
113.7,4.11,"off by discussing what exactly Agile
now we know that agile is a software"
117.81,3.9,"development methodology so agile
basically promotes shorter development"
121.71,5.159,"life cycles it makes sure that the life
cycle of a particular software that is"
126.869,4.501,"being produced is very short and this is
because it needs to make sure that the"
131.37,4.99,"customer feedback is prior
and the feedback is then used to make"
136.36,5.73,"the changes in the next cycle so if we
looked at the cycle of agile we will see"
142.09,4.2,"that there is planning designing
developing testing deploying reviewing"
146.29,5.19,"and launching so this process keeps on
repeating after receiving the feedback"
151.48,3.839,"from the customers end or the clients
end it may not be abie to see where you"
155.319,3.121,"are only interacting with the customer
you may have a b2b where you have a"
158.44,3.9,"another business client and they give
you a feedback and once you receive that"
162.34,4.2,"feedback you make the changes
accordingly and then plan ahead for the"
166.54,4.169,"next sprint or the next development
lifecycle even though you have very"
170.709,4.11,"short term development life cycles in
agile you have multiple of them and it"
174.819,4.291,"keeps on continuing until the whole
project is completely finished or the"
179.11,4.26,"support for the project has been closed
or shut down so if we look at the"
183.37,3.72,"benefits of agile there are a few let's
discuss them so the first benefit is"
187.09,3.57,"transparency so this benefit is
basically for the customer or the client"
190.66,5.28,"now if you have shorter term development
life cycles and you always show your"
195.94,4.65,"components to your customers and clients
and you take the feedback from them then"
200.59,3.84,"the client and the customer know what's
happening with your product or your"
204.43,4.2,"service and accordingly they can tell
you about the changes that they need and"
208.63,4.469,"this way they are kept to date about
what's happening since the lifecycle in"
213.099,3.271,"agile is so short
developers can only develop a few things"
216.37,3.81,"at a time so in every sprint a few
things are developed and they're shown"
220.18,3.66,"to the customer and they get the
feedback this way the customer is kept"
223.84,4.31,"up to date with what's happening with
the whole project now another benefit is"
228.15,4.239,"predictable costs and schedule so this
comes towards the developers end other"
232.389,4.32,"producers end when you're producing the
software you need to be able to predict"
236.709,5.101,"the costs that are going to be indulge
with the project now if a project is"
241.81,4.019,"going to take a long time to develop
then it's harder to predict the cost"
245.829,4.681,"because the variables over time increase
and they're unknown with shorter time"
250.51,3.9,"you're able to predict the costs much
more effectively and you're able to"
254.41,4.079,"schedule all the tasks much more
effectively then the next benefit is"
258.489,4.17,"basically that it allows for change now
we know that today's market is very"
262.659,3.361,"fickle the audience's demand changes
from one thing to"
266.02,4.049,"and they keep on chasing new trends
every other second so to cope up with"
270.069,4.861,"this change you need to use a modern
methodology like agile which allows you"
274.93,3.66,"to change your direction or change the
direction of your project as a whole"
278.59,4.049,"since you have very short term life
cycles you can change your goal very"
282.639,3.721,"easily and the last benefit you are
going to talk about is that it improves"
286.36,3.959,"the quality it improves the quality by
basically getting the feedback from the"
290.319,3.78,"customer or the client and then making
the changes it improves the quality from"
294.099,4.651,"the perspective of the customer since
they are able to ask for changes and the"
298.75,4.229,"developers are allowed to make those
changes the changes improve the quality"
302.979,3.87,"of the product all right now let's
discuss the next methodology that is the"
306.849,5.1,"waterfall methodology what exactly is it
so the waterfall methodology is one of"
311.949,3.631,"the early software development model
ever created and put to practice and"
315.58,3.42,"it's also spilled on to other
engineering products as well and not"
319.0,4.169,"just software engineering now this type
of software development model is"
323.169,5.011,"basically used for the projects which
are very small and for the projects"
328.18,4.019,"where there are no uncertain
requirements so let's look at how it"
332.199,3.631,"works quick in for you guys if you're
looking for end-to-end training in agile"
335.83,3.39,"we do provide the same for any further
details check out the links given in the"
339.22,4.62,"description below now let's continue
with the session so in waterfall model"
343.84,2.879,"we have a model which acts like a
waterfall"
346.719,4.2,"so we first start off with the phases so
the model basically consists of all the"
350.919,3.12,"different phases through which one has
to go through during the software"
354.039,2.791,"development process
now let's discuss them so one of the"
356.83,5.28,"first ones is requirements so in this
particular phase an organization or"
362.11,3.57,"whoever is using this model has to
decide what are the requirements for the"
365.68,3.06,"software they're going to develop they
have to look at all the different types"
368.74,2.669,"of requirements is functional
requirements it's non-functional"
371.409,4.771,"requirements and they have to make sure
that this particular idea this idea of"
376.18,3.78,"having the requirements is very clear
because since this is a very long term"
379.96,3.9,"software development lifecycle they need
to be clear with the idea of what"
383.86,2.85,"they're going to be developing and what
are the different things or the"
386.71,3.179,"requirements they need for this
particular software so they need to be"
389.889,4.02,"clear about their requirements then
comes the next phase in which they have"
393.909,4.68,"to start designing it that is basically
creating the architecture assigning and"
398.589,5.021,"developing and in the next phase comes
implementation in this particular phase"
403.61,4.289,"the design the architecture of the whole
software development is taken and"
407.899,4.98,"implemented the code is developed and
the test scripts are written etc etc and"
412.879,4.71,"then comes testing into the testing all
the test scripts are then ran on the"
417.589,4.05,"code or the testing happens with the
particular software components that have"
421.639,4.59,"been created and then becomes the
deployment phase in this particular"
426.229,4.5,"phase the particular application that
has been developed is deployed onto a"
430.729,4.59,"production environment or on a testing
environment or on a staging environment"
435.319,5.46,"then finally comes the maintenance phase
in which once your particular product"
440.779,5.01,"has been deployed it has to be monitored
and maintained now with this particular"
445.789,3.321,"model you can develop multiple
components of the software"
449.11,3.82,"simultaneously different teams can work
on different components and at the same"
452.93,4.019,"time while using the waterfall model all
right now let's look at some of the"
456.949,3.95,"benefits of waterfall model so one of
the benefits is that it's easy to manage"
460.899,4.12,"since they run you know it's not a short
term life cycle you already have"
465.019,3.93,"everything planned out it's very easy to
manage it then you can see that it works"
468.949,3.87,"very well for smaller projects because
with smaller projects you have"
472.819,4.08,"everything clearly defined you know what
are the requirements and the time period"
476.899,4.11,"is very less so waterfall model will
work for you and then the another"
481.009,4.62,"benefit is that it's clearly defined
stages since the stages are so clearly"
485.629,5.04,"defined you can easily manage it and you
can easily go ahead with following all"
490.669,4.441,"of these phases or stages and then you
can see that it's very well documented"
495.11,5.339,"since with waterfall model you have only
one software development lifecycle you"
500.449,4.8,"document everything properly you write
down what are your requirements during"
505.249,3.991,"the requirement phase you talk about you
design your particular software"
509.24,3.87,"architecture you implement it etc so why
are you doing all of it you document"
513.11,4.229,"every single aspect of it properly so
these are the advantages of waterfall"
517.339,3.93,"model now let's look at the impact of
all of these methodologies so first we"
521.269,5.13,"look at the impact of agile methodology
now since agile is used a lot most"
526.399,3.451,"of the companies these days are using
agile if not agile they're using DevOps"
529.85,4.2,"but a lot of companies are
you can use agile and some companies"
534.05,2.91,"that have been established for a pretty
long time have also been making use of"
536.96,4.29,"it as you can see British Telecom or
National Bank of Canada or Cisco or Lego"
541.25,3.42,"these companies have shifted from an
traditional model like waterfall model"
544.67,5.73,"onto agile and they have increased the
profits to a new height after changing"
550.4,4.2,"to agile now we look at the impact of
waterfall so what if all is one of the"
554.6,4.26,"earliest methodologies if you come up
with so all the different older"
558.86,6.48,"companies like you have your Microsoft
IBM HP Cisco these companies used to"
565.34,3.51,"make full use of waterfall before now
they are changed on two different"
568.85,3.6,"methodologies or they've changed to
hybrid methodologies or waterfall and"
572.45,4.08,"agile together but they don't use
waterfall alone but there are some"
576.53,4.68,"agencies like government agencies like
Ministry of Defense like DRDO in India"
581.21,5.1,"and DOD in America or Israel or NASA
these kind of government agencies do not"
586.31,4.89,"have to fight for their market they have
already established requirements which"
591.2,3.84,"they have to follow and they have to be
followed in a very rigid manner so in"
595.04,4.71,"their case waterfall model is still used
they do not have the requirement of"
599.75,3.24,"using agile they don't have to keep on
competing with other companies here and"
602.99,3.48,"there they are not part of the business
market they have a set goals and they"
606.47,3.42,"just have to follow them so that's where
they still use them if they don't use it"
609.89,4.32,"the user hybrid version of it now let's
see the comparison of agile and"
614.21,3.18,"waterfall let's see what are the
criteria we'll be using to compare both"
617.39,4.35,"of them so the first thing we'll be
measuring them on is the lifecycle then"
621.74,5.73,"planning then requirements then progress
then Dean then emphasis and finally the"
627.47,3.78,"goal of the methodology now let's look
at all of them so our first one is"
631.25,5.52,"lifecycle as you can see agile has
multiple shorter life cycles whereas"
636.77,4.83,"waterfall has a very long one and the
benefit of having a shorter life cycle"
641.6,4.14,"is very evident you can have you can
adapt to the market you have"
645.74,4.98,"transparency with the customers etc we
saw all of it in the benefits of agile"
650.72,4.11,"and with waterfall model you have a very
long process even though it's very long"
654.83,4.77,"it has its own benefits whereas it's
easily managed and in places where you"
659.6,3.42,"don't have to compete in the market it's
very useful now let's look at planning"
663.02,2.93,"with agile the play
running is generally done for a very"
665.95,3.39,"short-term period since the Shaw the
lifecycle is going to be very short"
669.34,3.99,"around two to four weeks that's the
development lifecycle the planning is"
673.33,4.53,"also done very fast for this particular
period whereas with waterfall the"
677.86,3.6,"planning takes a long time because the
product is going to develop over a very"
681.46,4.17,"long time so the in planning agile does
it fast whereas waterfall takes a lot of"
685.63,4.41,"time because it's going to be a very
long development lifecycle also then"
690.04,3.3,"comes to the requirements if you compare
the requirements of agile and waterfall"
693.34,4.71,"with agile all the requirements aren't
clearly defined in the start because you"
698.05,3.42,"go ahead with one direction but you
don't exactly know what are your"
701.47,3.21,"requirements you only get to know your
requirements over the development of"
704.68,4.98,"your product whereas a waterfall you
need to know or you already know all the"
709.66,5.22,"requirements clearly that you have an
end goal in your mind and you have all the"
714.88,4.92,"necessary steps that need to be taken to
achieve that end goal then progress so to"
719.8,3.63,"measure the progress and height of these
waterfall or agile we can see that in"
723.43,4.05,"agile you have the review of the
progress every other day whereas with"
727.48,5.28,"waterfall the progress is checked every
other week because you know in agile is"
732.76,2.94,"a shorter development lifecycle that's
why you need to check the progress every"
735.7,3.21,"day whereas with waterfall it's a very
long term it can go to two months three"
738.91,4.08,"months six months so it's done every
week okay if you look at the team size"
742.99,4.11,"in now if we talked about the teams and
the governance of these teams in agile"
747.1,3.96,"you can see that all the teams are
self-governing whereas in waterfall all"
751.06,4.56,"the teams are governed by a single
authority so you can see that agile"
755.62,3.42,"teams a little bit more independent
whereas the waterfall teams will not be"
759.04,5.13,"that independent then emphasis in agile
the focus is on delivering the end"
764.17,3.42,"product and increasing the business
profit increasing the value of your"
767.59,3.75,"business and making sure that your
customer is very satisfied whereas with"
771.34,5.55,"the waterfall model the whole emphasis
is on implementing the end goal you know"
776.89,3.66,"your requirements and you need to
implement them whereas with agile it's"
780.55,3.27,"for the customer satisfaction and
increase in the business value then the"
783.82,4.47,"end goal what is the end goal of either
of them for agile the end goal is to"
788.29,5.01,"deliver the product features in Sprint's
to the consumer and customer that is to"
793.3,3.37,"increase the business value and to make
sure the consumer"
796.67,3.12,"customer is satisfied whereas in
waterfall the aim is to deliver a"
799.79,3.84,"complete product only once it has been
completed and gone through all the"
803.63,5.04,"phases to give the final polished
product to whoever requires it so these"
808.67,3.66,"were the differences between agile and
waterfall now if you looked at which one"
812.33,2.25,"is better
agile a waterfall you could definitely"
814.58,5.22,"say agile in a lot of cases but again
this is very scenario based you may have"
819.8,3.3,"to decide for yourself if you have to
choose between agile or waterfall you"
823.1,3.24,"first have to look at what kind of
software will you be developing will you"
826.34,4.44,"be developing a software where the
markets need may change every time here"
830.78,5.64,"and there all the market or the audience
may need to give you a feedback if"
836.42,4.05,"that's the case you need to choose agile
or if you do not have any business"
840.47,3.33,"profits in mind if you are working with
an NGO or if you're working with a"
843.8,3.81,"government where only your requirements
have to be established then you can go"
847.61,4.55,"ahead with waterfall as you can see with
government agencies like hospitals or"
852.16,5.38,"you know Defense Department's they do
not have to satisfy anyone's needs like"
857.54,3.66,"at least they don't have to satisfy any
customers needs their main goal is to"
861.2,4.41,"implement a very rigid and polished
system that will help them to finish"
865.61,5.16,"their task or complete their tasks with
DRDO of the Defense Department it would"
870.77,3.45,"be to make really good defence
software's"
874.22,3.96,"whereas with the hospitals it will be to
make really good Hospital software's"
878.18,3.99,"this is not the same case of agile so
you have to choose based on yours"
882.17,3.72,"requirements which one is better
agile or waterfall if you wanted to say"
885.89,4.56,"it objectively you can say agile is
better but a lot of places agile and"
890.45,3.45,"waterfall are used in hybrid with each
other they basically hybrid"
893.9,3.3,"methodologies quicken for you guys if
you're looking for end-to-end training"
897.2,3.6,"in agile we do provide the same for any
further details check out the links"
900.8,2.94,"given in the description below okay guys
this brings us to the end of the session"
903.74,3.3,"if you have any queries leave them in
the comment below and we could get back"
907.04,3.92,"to you at the earliest thank you for
watching"
