second,duration,transcript
2.389,4.45,"hey everyone welcome to the session by
intellipaat you might have heard of"
6.839,4.831,"data science data science and artificial
intelligence have been a really big boon"
11.67,4.41,"to the world of information technology
because this entire world is one big"
16.08,4.47,"data problem and in this session we're
gonna compare data science head-on with"
20.55,3.989,"artificial intelligence and see where it
stands well before we begin with the"
24.539,3.301,session make sure to subscribe to the Intellipaat's YouTube channel and hit that
27.84,3.3,"Bell icon so that you never miss an
update from us here is the agenda for"
31.14,4.02,"today we'll begin by taking a quick
introduction to data science followed by"
35.16,3.51,"which we can check out where data
science is actually used and after this"
38.67,3.209,"we can check out what artificial
intelligences and some facts about"
41.879,3.991,"artificial intelligence at the same time
and after this we're gonna compare data"
45.87,3.15,"science head-on with artificial
intelligence and guys if you have any"
49.02,3.24,"queries make sure to head down to the
comment section below I do let us know"
52.26,3.299,"and we'll be happy to help out of the
earliest and guess if you're interested"
55.559,2.941,"in doing an end to end Course
certification in data science"
58.5,3.539,"Intellipaat provides the data science
architect master's program where you can"
62.039,3.931,"learn all of these concepts thoroughly
and earn a certificate at the same time"
65.97,4.56,"well without further ado let's begin 
the class coming to the first item on"
70.53,4.65,"the agenda it is introduction to
artificial intelligence I am sure in the"
75.18,3.6,"past decade and in fact in this decade
we've been hearing a lot about"
78.78,5.01,"artificial intelligence right so what is
artificial intelligence it is very"
83.79,3.689,"simple guys it is a theory and the
development of computer systems to"
87.479,5.611,"basically mimic human intelligence or we
can even stay at it as you know machine"
93.09,3.569,"performing a task which would actually
require some sort of human intervention"
96.659,5.1,"there well there are many tasks where
artificial intelligence at this point of"
101.759,4.021,"time is actually a lot better than human
beings for example our we have image"
105.78,3.75,"recognition we have speech recognition
process of decision making and"
109.53,4.11,"translations when you think about all
four of these basically you will know"
113.64,3.42,"that there is some sort of human
intervention required because we are"
117.06,5.099,"trained to look at images we understand
speech and our brain is logical enough"
122.159,4.56,"to you know perform very good decision
making and decision taking steps but"
126.719,3.481,"then when we talk about translations as
well pretty much we have been trained to"
130.2,2.23,"understand
different languages where we can you"
132.43,5.04,"know translate between one to the other
as well but nowadays all this can be"
137.47,4.86,"done faster more efficiently and
eventually better than human beings by"
142.33,3.45,"making use of machines guys so where
are we with artificial intelligence"
145.78,5.31,"today when artificial intelligence has
been so subtly integrated into our lives"
151.09,4.5,"we don't even notice it is there anymore
guys why do we see this stick with me"
155.59,3.51,"for the next couple of slides and you
will understand just this because when"
159.1,4.35,"you look around you there as artificial
intelligence everywhere and also you"
163.45,3.0,"might have heard of the term such as
artificial intelligence is the best"
166.45,4.65,"career path of this decade and what not
and that is a heavy statement because we"
171.1,3.24,"are just at the start of this decade but
then all the trends and all the"
174.34,3.12,"analytics which have been performed all
the surveys which have been conducted"
177.46,3.81,"pretty much says that artificial
intelligence as a career path and the"
181.27,4.65,"technology is on the rise and it will be
trending for the next ten years and as"
185.92,4.05,"you can see artificial intelligence has
the biggest community ever well if"
189.97,3.45,"something is trending and if something
is constantly on the number one spot for"
193.42,4.02,"the last couple of years and definitely
it attracts the attention of everyone"
197.44,4.32,"right so that's basically that and then
guys coming to where artificial"
201.76,3.66,"intelligence has been used in this world
well this is why I told you it has been"
205.42,4.32,"very subtly integrated into our lives
everything from Google assistant Cortana"
209.74,4.38,"you know there's Siri there's big
speeders Alexa and much more so you can"
214.12,3.57,"talk to your phones you can talk to your
computers you can talk to your machines"
217.69,3.87,"to get so much done in fact there are
smart homes being implemented for the"
221.56,3.78,"last couple of years well all you have
to do is ask Alexa to do stuff for you"
225.34,4.92,"you know Alexa can unlock the door for
you Alexa can turn on your TV home"
230.26,4.32,"theaters and you know pretty much 
turn on the lights move away the"
234.58,3.84,"curtains and pretty much everything so
when you think about it it has been"
238.42,5.16,"there around us for a while now but then
when we talk about the actual trending"
243.58,3.78,"stuff about artificial intelligence you
know when we talk about revenues"
247.36,3.33,"especially for the next five years you
can see from the graph all the way from"
250.69,5.609,"2016 to 2025 the amount given is in
million dollars so you know pretty much"
256.299,3.791,"it was three fifty seven million dollars
in 2016 basically the revenue"
260.09,5.7,"generated by enterprise applications
from 357 it has been predicted that in"
265.79,4.65,"2025 it's gonna hit thirty one thousand
two hundred and thirty six million u.s."
270.44,4.35,"dollars guys so imagine the growth as
you can see on your screen I am sure you"
274.79,2.79,"guys can figure out that it is an
exponential growth"
277.58,3.57,"just a quick info in case you guys are
looking for end-to-end course"
281.15,3.39,certification in data science Intellipaat provides the data science
284.54,3.72,"architect master's program where you can
learn all of these concepts thoroughly"
288.26,4.11,"and earn a certificate in the same the
link is given in the description box so"
292.37,3.359,"make sure to check it out and without
further ado let's get back to the class"
295.729,4.081,"and then when we talk about how much
research is going on with respect to"
299.81,3.78,"artificial intelligence here is the
thing in the year 2000 there was less"
303.59,3.36,"than around one thousand one thousand
technical papers which are actually"
306.95,4.71,"published but then when you talk about
2015 and up there is skyrocket and from"
311.66,5.759,"in fact from 15 all the way till 25 the
numbers just keep going as high up as"
317.419,5.761,"you can think as so we started all the
way from 1500 in 2015 it hit somewhere"
323.18,6.0,"around 18,000 and now you know pretty
much it is very more than 40,000 papers"
329.18,3.209,"which have been published guys so it is
that nine times growing every single"
332.389,3.96,"year is what we can tell and then coming
to this slide where we're trying to see"
336.349,4.231,"where artificial intelligence fits in
well there are a couple of steps when we"
340.58,4.23,"talk about data you know steps such as
data generation data storage data"
344.81,4.53,"processing and inside so the first steps
pretty much include data generation and"
349.34,4.65,"data storage and this gets covered all
together by the world of big data guys"
353.99,3.299,"and then coming to data processing and
actionable insights"
357.289,3.781,"well artificial intelligence here we go
because when we talk about data"
361.07,3.81,"processing we can make use of machine
learning deep learning neural networks"
364.88,4.08,"and there are many other concepts guys
natural language processing you know"
368.96,4.32,"support vector machines and much more -
pretty much process all of the data and"
373.28,4.35,"at the end of it we have very good data
analysis and analytics tools which make"
377.63,4.17,"use of artificial intelligence to give
us beautiful visualizations which can be"
381.8,4.11,"used to derive actionable insight and
then finally coming to the comparison"
385.91,3.9,"between data science and artificial
intelligence on the first point we'll be"
389.81,4.68,"discussing is the meaning well guys did
as you can see is a very detailed"
394.49,3.66,"process which basically involves and you
know pre-processing the data"
398.15,3.87,"performing some analysis on this data at
the end of the analysis comes the"
402.02,4.14,"visualizations where we'll be generating
a lot of graphs a lot of visuals and at"
406.16,4.2,"the end of it you gonna use all of this
to perform some predictions on some"
410.36,3.27,"future trends guys but then coming to
artificial intelligence artificial"
413.63,4.41,"intelligence is basically you know
implementing a model and what this model"
418.04,3.72,"at the end of the day does is that you
know it is used to forecast certain"
421.76,4.62,"future trends future events what might
happen and how we can get there if that"
426.38,4.38,"is the case while coming to point number
two it's the skills well when you talk"
430.76,3.72,"about data science again or data science
you have to understand this is an"
434.48,3.96,"umbrella term for a lot of statistical
techniques a lot of design techniques"
438.44,3.48,"and development methodologies guys well
when we talk about artificial"
441.92,4.58,"intelligence it has got a lot to do with
algorithm design algorithm development"
446.5,4.78,"efficiency conversions and in fact even
deployment of all of these design and"
451.28,3.9,"developed products guys but then coming
to the next point it is the technique"
455.18,3.21,"here is where there is a lot of
difference between artificial"
458.39,3.45,"intelligence and data science in data
science you know we are actually majorly"
461.84,5.28,"concerned about making use of data
analysis and data analytics guys so data"
467.12,3.9,"analysis where we'll be using pass data
to analyze the present tense in a very"
471.02,3.57,"simple term and with respect to data
analytics we'll be using the past and"
474.59,4.32,"the present data to predict the future
trends guys that is why there is a small"
478.91,3.36,"difference between analysis and
analytics but then when we talk about"
482.27,3.45,"artificial intelligence you need to know
that you know will be concerned with a"
485.72,3.81,"lot of machine learning concepts in this
particular stage it can be machine"
489.53,4.23,"learning it can be a lot of concepts as
deep learning neural networks and much"
493.76,2.43,"more as I just mentioned in the couple
of slides ago"
496.19,4.29,"well basically coming to the next point
it is the knowledge well when we talk"
500.48,3.78,"about data science data science was
actually established you know to find"
504.26,4.44,"hidden patterns and hidden trends in
data to make more sense of the data and"
508.7,3.75,"to make it a more friendlier entity but
then we talked about artificial"
512.45,2.61,"intelligence you need to know that you
know with respect to artificial"
515.06,3.75,"intelligence it is to make sure whatever
data we are dealing with can be"
518.81,4.529,"autonomously handled so we are trying to
remove the human from the picture when"
523.339,3.701,"we talk about artificial intelligence
to give the Machine some depth some"
527.04,4.71,"understanding of the data to let it work
on its own without the human dependency"
531.75,3.96,"guys then coming to the next point
quickly is processing with respect to"
535.71,4.08,"processing again data science does not
involve a very high degree of scientific"
539.79,5.28,"processing it involves a lot of complex
procedures yes but then all of these are"
545.07,4.56,"not the highest standards of scientific
processing guys but then when we talk"
549.63,3.9,"about artificial intelligence even as
the name suggests it can be a bit more"
553.53,4.29,"complex when we talk about artificial
intelligence guys because your will be"
557.82,4.38,"having a lot of high-level processing a
lot of complex processing to deal with"
562.2,3.51,"because at the end of the day we are
trying to implement some sort of"
565.71,4.08,"autonomy in the machines you know which
eventually are telling the machines that"
569.79,5.28,"they need to step up their game and to
mimic the human brain and the human"
575.07,4.92,"brain in today's world is the most
intelligent being there is right so"
579.99,4.02,"coming to the next one is the goal of
these technologies well with respect to"
584.01,4.53,"data science complex models you know are
basically built by making use of various"
588.54,4.05,"insights various facts about the data
it's a lot of statistical techniques"
592.59,3.6,"modeling and whatnot but then we talk
about artificial intelligence well"
596.19,4.74,"artificial intelligence was meant to
build models that emulate cognition guys"
600.93,3.75,"but emulate cognition what we basically
mean as it again we're trying to make"
604.68,4.35,"the machines self sustained enough so
that where it would not require certain"
609.03,3.84,"human dependencies and the next thing is
that it will require some sort of human"
612.87,4.38,"understanding to a certain level because
that is what is required to achieve some"
617.25,4.11,"sort of cognition and then coming to the
salary of the develop words well the"
621.36,4.62,"average salary of a data scientist is
around hundred and thirty thousand US"
625.98,3.75,"dollars per year and the average salary
of an artificial intelligence developer"
629.73,2.82,"is around one hundred and twenty
thousand US dollars per year"
632.55,3.75,"guys this is the average amount that
I've mentioned to keep it to the scope"
636.3,3.69,"of all the viewers well guys what you
need to understand at this point of time"
639.99,4.17,"is that we have kept the average number
on the screen you can pretty much have"
644.16,3.36,"access to three to four times the
salaries mentioned on your screen"
647.52,4.41,"regardless of which country you you're
working from or what company you're"
651.93,3.96,"working for as well guys so you have to
know that these both carrier parts are"
655.89,3.81,"very fun to work with
very lucrative and at the end of the day"
659.7,4.68,"you will have a lot of fun at your job
at the same time so to summarize the"
664.38,2.82,"differences between these two basically
I want to say that artificial"
667.2,3.78,"intelligence you know makes use of these
loops of perspection that we call and"
670.98,4.71,"then pretty much we use some sort of
planning to become intelligent in how we"
675.69,3.6,"handle data guys but then when you talk
about data science data science is all"
679.29,4.59,"about using patterns all about using
trends and pretty much you know getting"
683.88,4.8,"at a decision faster more efficient
which might have crossed the eye when we"
688.68,4.32,"talk about data so coming to when we
should go about using data science or"
693.0,3.54,"artificial intelligence well data
science is actually preferred when you"
696.54,4.5,"need to understand and find out patterns
and trends in the data it is used if you"
701.04,3.03,"have some sort of a mathematical
requirement where you need an in depth"
704.07,4.59,"and the faster analysis of the same it
is also used when you need to perform"
708.66,5.13,"EDA EDA is basically exploratory data
analysis where you'll be hunting and"
713.79,4.32,"pretty much going through the data to
find something which might skip the"
718.11,3.48,"naked eye as we said and then you'll
also be using it if you need some sort"
721.59,3.6,"of improvement which is supposed to be
linear which you need a constant growth"
725.19,3.81,"in your particular concepts and also
it'll be required if you require very"
729.0,4.08,"fast mathematical processing guys but
then the last requirement is that you"
733.08,3.09,"know there are a lot of industry
requirements which will involve a lot to"
736.17,3.72,"do with prediction for example if you're
a sales company a product company you"
739.89,3.27,"will be concerned with what is the
products you might sell next month next"
743.16,4.47,"year the next decade or so right so
predictive analytics also helps your and"
747.63,3.78,"data science does just that
come into artificial intelligence well"
751.41,5.13,"artificial intelligence is a requirement
if you know you require some sort of"
756.54,4.049,"precision which is out of this world
guys and I mean it when I say that"
760.589,4.891,"because AI is made to use in full
potentials in full swing when we are"
765.48,3.96,"basically trying to get the greatest
degree of precision that we can and then"
769.44,3.899,"when we talk about decision making as
well artificial intelligence is known to"
773.339,3.931,"be faster or when we compare directly to
humans in many aspects so that is that"
777.27,4.17,"and then coming to logical decision
handling again guys as humans there"
781.44,4.32,"might be emotional interference in
multiple tasks where the requirement"
785.76,3.12,"does not call for that in that case
pretty much artificial"
788.88,4.5,"will not have any swing to any emotions
and it'll work fine and then handling"
793.38,3.3,"repetitive tasks for humans can be a bit
of a challenge but then when we talk"
796.68,4.71,"about AI pretty much it can handle it
with ease guys again working 24/7 365"
801.39,4.41,"days without any breaks or performing
very good risk analysis risk-taking"
805.8,4.14,"abilities and making sure you're
efficient through all of these points"
809.94,3.81,"that I mentioned on a screen AI does it
better than humans at this point of time"
813.75,3.63,"and then there are many other points
with respect to data science and"
817.38,3.63,"artificial intelligence as well guys
well to keep it to the scope of all the"
821.01,3.66,"viewers of this particular video we had
to simplify it to present it here guys"
824.67,3.63,"now coming to the companies which make
use of data science and artificial"
828.3,4.76,"intelligence well we have everyone from
Apple Google Amazon Twitter of Facebook"
833.06,4.24,"Nvidia and thousands of other companies
who make use of data science on a daily"
837.3,3.75,"basis then coming to the companies which
make use of artificial intelligence we"
841.05,4.86,"have everyone from Walmart labs
Microsoft Genpact Accenture Ericsson"
845.91,5.43,"KPMG and all the fortune 500 companies
that you can ever think of guys so in"
851.34,4.71,"today's world where we live data as an
unruly and entity already know that but"
856.05,4.41,"worry not concepts such as data science
and artificial intelligence are in full"
860.46,2.76,"swing
to make data to make all of these"
863.22,4.5,"processes a friendlier entity and to
help us work with it faster more"
867.72,3.15,"efficiently and with better outcomes and
results"
870.87,3.96,"just a quick info in case you guys are
looking for end-to-end course"
874.83,3.27,certification in data science Intellipaat provides the data science
878.1,3.84,"architect master's program where you can
learn all of these concepts thoroughly"
881.94,4.08,"and earn a certificate in the same the
link is given in the description box so"
886.02,3.21,"make sure to check it out
I hope this session was very informative"
889.23,3.42,"for you all if you have any more points
you wanna add on this data science"
892.65,3.57,"versus artificial intelligence video or
if you have any queries in general make"
896.22,2.64,"sure to head down to the comments
section and do let us know we'll be"
898.86,5.42,"happy to help out at the earliest and on
that note have a nice day"
