second,duration,transcript
2.87,4.54,"Coming up, I'll walk you through the new
Microsoft quantum development kit, now in"
7.41,4.26,"preview. This is an important milestone
that we've been working on to empower"
11.67,4.65,"you in the quantum computing revolution.
It forms a part of our differentiated"
16.32,2.76,approach to delivering a scalable
19.08,4.109,"quantum system. The Quantum Development Kit
makes it easy for you to start"
23.189,4.291,"experimenting now it includes a native
quantum-focused programming language"
27.48,4.5,"called Q# ('Q sharp'), local and Azure-hosted
simulators for you to test your Q#"
31.98,4.4,"solution, and sample cue sharp code
and libraries to help you get started. In"
36.38,4.72,"the next few minutes I'll walk through a
few code examples and I'll explain where"
41.1,4.889,"quantum principles like superposition
and entanglement apply. If these concepts"
45.989,3.57,"are new to you then check out our
previous episode to learn more and you"
49.559,4.531,"can download the code from our website (www.microsoft.com/quantumdevkit)
to follow along. Let's get started. Here"
54.09,3.93,"I'm in Visual Studio I'd like to start
with our version of ""Hello World"" and"
58.02,4.469,"quantum computing called teleportation,
which is core to quantum algorithms and"
62.489,3.021,"a great primer to begin your quantum
computing journey."
65.51,4.149,"Teleportation enables communication
between quantum bits on a single piece"
69.659,4.681,"of quantum hardware or even between
remote quantum computers it serves as a"
74.34,3.87,"basis of a future quantum Internet and
shares many operations with quantum"
78.21,4.71,"algorithms you will create and develop.
In this program I'll highlight the steps"
82.92,4.05,"to initialize quantum resources, apply
operations and run your quantum"
86.97,5.149,"algorithm. Let's look at the code. I've
opened two project files for this demo"
92.119,6.311,one in our native quantum language Q# and the other in a standard
98.43,4.14,"programming language C# this is
because a quantum computer is like a"
102.57,5.07,"coprocessor, it's much like how you
program a GPU or FPGA and then call the"
107.64,4.74,"code for the accelerator from say your
CPU. Q# is designed with a similar"
112.38,5.879,"hybrid compute model in mind now let's
look at the Q# program the syntax"
118.259,3.39,"should look somewhat familiar as we've
designed it with ideas drawn from"
121.649,5.031,"languages like C# and F#. For
example here you have code colorization"
126.68,7.029,"you can define and call operations use
let and if commands and more"
133.709,5.28,"the teleport classical message operation
takes as input a classical message"
138.989,5.34,"represented by a boolean value. The first
thing to do is allocate a register to"
144.329,5.461,"store quantum information here I've
allocated two qubits initially assigned"
149.79,6.96,"to the state 0 with the using this command. I
then assign each qubit a name message"
156.75,5.549,"and there I'm going to encode the
message into the message qubit by"
162.299,5.27,"applying an X operation which is
analogous to a NOT in classical logic."
167.569,6.191,"Here if the message is 1 we apply the X
operation to the qubit message flipping"
173.76,7.199,"its state to teleport the message let's
look at this operation teleport. Teleport"
180.959,6.45,"takes two qubits as input message and
there the first step is to allocate one"
187.409,8.67,"more qubit and we call it here it's also
initialized to state 0. Now we use the H"
196.079,6.9,"operation or Hadamard gate to place our
qubit here into a superposition state H"
202.979,7.771,"takes the state 0 to 0 plus 1 and the
state 1 to 0 minus 1 recall that a qubit"
210.75,4.199,"is a quantum bit of information and it
can be in a so-called superposition of"
214.949,7.19,"values not just 0 or 1 like a classical
bit but rather a combination of 0 and 1."
222.139,5.02,"This leads to a type of massive
parallelism we can exploit in quantum"
227.159,4.08,"algorithms and is a key quantum
operation that you will use at the start"
231.239,4.77,"of most every quantum algorithm you
design now after placing here into"
236.009,3.93,"superposition we apply a two qubit
controlled-not"
239.939,6.781,"or CNOT gate to the qubits here and
there CNOT flips the value of the"
246.72,4.799,"their qubit if the here qubit is 1
otherwise it does nothing to either 2"
251.519,6.301,"bit it's like an XOR gate in classical
logic now together these two operations"
257.82,5.73,"H and CNOT have enabled us to create
entanglement between qubits here and"
263.55,3.54,"there. Once entangled, the state of these
two"
267.09,4.35,"bits are intrinsically correlated. If I do
something to one of them it"
271.44,4.59,"instantaneously changes the state of the
other one even if I've spread them"
276.03,5.52,"across the universe from each other. This
entangled pair is a key resource for"
281.55,5.16,"sending the message. I take the message
qubit and load it into the entangled"
286.71,6.42,"pair using another CNOT on qubits
message and here followed by H on qubit"
293.13,4.89,"message now I need to measure out the
entanglement to conclude the"
298.02,5.369,"teleportation of the message I measure
both the message and here qubits using"
303.389,5.071,"the M operation at the end of a quantum
algorithm you will often perform a"
308.46,3.959,"measurement to project the quantum
information to a classical state which"
312.419,4.981,"you can then output and read here we use
the measurement output to conditionally"
317.4,8.1,"apply quantum operations Z then X to the
their qubit now returning to teleport"
325.5,5.25,"classical message. We can measure the
their qubit to see if it has the message"
330.75,4.77,"let's check to see if the message was
actually teleported into the their qubit"
335.52,5.04,"and go back to the main calling program
in the C# file now the Quantum"
340.56,4.29,"Development Kit comes with a built in
universal quantum simulator with it you"
344.85,4.319,"can run small instances of your quantum
programs on your local hardware to"
349.169,5.401,"around 30 simulated qubits the qubit
restriction is purely driven by your"
354.57,4.04,"development machine I'm using my
everyday laptop for this simulation in"
358.61,6.279,"general you'll need 16 GB of RAM to
simulate 30 qubits simulating one more"
364.889,5.481,"qubit requires double the memory
simulating one less halfs the memory"
370.37,5.41,"simulating 40 qubits requires roughly a
thousand times more memory than 30"
375.78,6.42,"cubits coming in around 16 terabytes
so we also offer a simulator hosted and"
382.2,5.939,"Azure that enables going beyond 40
qubits to test our program let's"
388.139,4.861,"initialize and target the local
simulator and call teleport classical"
393.0,6.479,"message eight times each time with a
random message of 0 or 1, or true or"
399.479,1.05,"false.
I'm going"
400.529,5.1,"to print the results of the screen using
the functionality of C# now let's"
405.629,7.89,"hit run we can see that when the boolean
value is true the their qubit also"
413.519,3.35,"received true
so the message has been correctly sent"
416.869,4.15,"we've successfully teleported
information and you've completed your"
421.019,4.71,"first quantum algorithm you can also
debug your quantum program by setting a"
425.729,3.41,"breakpoint and stepping through the code
which we'll cover in an upcoming"
429.139,5.17,"Microsoft Mechanics episode you can also
use the built-in trace simulator"
434.309,4.98,"provided with the preview release to
estimate how many qubits and operations"
439.289,4.77,"you are using in different parts of your
quantum program as you can see here in"
444.059,5.16,"the Excel file. It outputs how many
quantum gates are used within the"
449.219,4.29,"different operations with such
information you can optimize your"
453.509,4.08,"algorithm to reduce the number of qubits
and operations required. And we'll cover"
457.589,5.22,"this in more detail in future episodes
as well. Now let's take a quick look at a"
462.809,4.32,"more complex program. This example serves
as a foundation for using quantum"
467.129,4.71,"computing to solve problems in material
science or chemistry for example to"
471.839,4.19,"learn about new catalysts for improving
the efficiency of a chemical reaction"
476.029,5.59,"let's look at finding the ground state
energy of a simple molecule, hydrogen. Now"
481.619,6.57,"here again we call our quantum program
from a classical one this time written"
488.189,5.13,"in F# in this example we're going
to load classical data about estimations"
493.319,5.7,"of the bond links and then for each bond
length, we use the quantum computer to"
499.019,5.73,"estimate the ground state energy given
that configuration this example also"
504.749,5.06,"uses many of the built-in library
functions in Q# by calling"
509.809,5.38,"Microsoft.quantum.canon to enable easy
programming of a very fundamental"
515.189,5.91,"quantum algorithm and you can see the
many libraries available arithmetic"
521.099,6.871,phase estimation and more now in the F# code I can exploit real time
527.97,5.429,"plotting to see the output as it's
calculated when I hit run you can see it"
533.399,3.151,"plotting
the ground state energy calculated on"
536.55,5.909,"the quantum computer 454 different on
links the output from the quantum"
542.459,4.771,"computer as you can see closely matches
the results from theory developed over"
547.23,5.94,"the last several decades. Now molecular
hydrogen is a very small molecule with"
553.17,5.58,"just two hydrogen atoms we can easily
simulate it locally to test larger"
558.75,2.7,"molecules. We can use the Azure base
simulator"
561.45,4.92,"when the algorithm requires more than 40
qubits and ultimately the quantum"
566.37,3.18,"computer will allow us to go far beyond
40 qubits."
569.55,5.159,"We'll be able to study complex molecules
that today require longer than the"
574.709,4.591,"lifetime of the universe to study on our
best supercomputers and it will take"
579.3,4.229,"just a matter of hours or days with a
quantum computer. Our Quantum Development"
583.529,4.921,"Kit enables you to write programs for
these large calculations today so that"
588.45,3.6,"was a quick introduction to the new
Microsoft Quantum Development Kit in"
592.05,4.14,"preview now you can get started by
accessing the preview at the link shown"
596.19,6.36,"and get access to Q# our simulators
code samples and tutorials quantum"
602.55,3.51,"computers will be revolutionary and
enable us to start solving some of the"
606.06,4.469,"world's most challenging problems in
areas such as machine learning, global"
610.529,4.05,"warming, and clean energy. To find out
more about quantum computing and"
614.579,5.041,"Microsoft's approach join our quantum
community and thanks for watching. I look"
619.62,3.6,"forward to seeing how you will harness
quantum computing to kickstart the"
623.22,3.02,quantum computing revolution.
