second,duration,transcript
0.0,6.839,Click the Bell Icon to get the Latest Videos from Ekeeda
6.839,3.63,"all to this video with this video we are
going to start with the new subject the"
10.469,4.92,"subject is titled digital image
processing as of now we are all familiar"
15.389,5.011,"with the wide application areas of
digital image processing here the first"
20.4,5.19,"chapter is focused on 2 introduction of
digital image processing and the very"
25.59,3.509,"first topic that we are going to deal
with this video that is what is a"
29.099,4.861,"digital image processing as digital
image processing the title is having"
33.96,4.86,"three terms digital image and processing
in this video we are going to see first"
38.82,4.68,"of all what exactly the image mean the
types of image we are going to see as"
43.5,4.62,"analog image and digital image so the
first two terms a digital image we will"
48.12,4.25,"be getting familiarized with and further
we shall see digital image processing"
52.37,5.079,"now we know the various applications of
digital image processing why digital"
57.449,5.13,"image processing has been so popular so
the advantages offered by digital image"
62.579,5.311,"processing we will be seeing in this
particular video further whatever the"
67.89,4.62,"other areas related to digital image
processing are that is image analysis"
72.51,3.99,"sometimes called as the image
understanding along with the computer"
76.5,4.71,"vision we will be discussing so we shall
be deciding the scope of digital image"
81.21,5.4,"processing the exact starting and ending
of digital image processing is to be"
86.61,6.0,"addressed along with a useful paradigm
into the world of images also we shall"
92.61,4.079,"see the various course contains that we
are going to follow into this entire"
96.689,4.561,"subject digital image processing so let
us start with the first topic that is"
101.25,5.709,what is digital image processing
111.02,5.17,"so let us begin with the topic the topic
is titled what is a digital image"
116.19,5.28,"processing here those viewers who are
very beginners with the subject digital"
121.47,3.9,"image processing I must make you
familiar that we should first of all how"
125.37,4.26,"the image that generally be obtained
with the help of camera in our subject"
129.63,4.86,"we call this process as image
acquisition and the camera is actually"
134.49,5.43,"the image sensor with which a picture
generally what we talk is our image so"
139.92,5.16,"that image should be a digital image
that image contains information so the"
145.08,5.6,"extracting information from the digital
image and processing it further for the"
150.68,4.75,"specific application we can say it is
the extent of digital image processing"
155.43,5.43,"so this is a try to show you a prototype
of what exactly digital image processing"
160.86,6.05,"is his the title is digital image
processing moving further into the topic"
166.91,5.68,"we first of all take a simple picture
here this picture contains a cartoon"
172.59,6.63,"character moogly here a dancing girl a
call for elephant black bear black"
179.22,6.18,"panther we have small hurts here the
forestry the river a lot of things along"
185.4,5.309,"with the fruits are there into this
image so lot of storytelling things can"
190.709,5.09,"be done with the help of this particular
picture what we call image also hence"
195.799,6.281,"anonymous person has said that one
picture is worth more than 10,000 words"
202.08,5.52,"here so with this understanding we begin
with the topic what is digital image"
207.6,4.889,"processing so let us first of all see
what is the motivation behind the"
212.489,4.56,"development and the popularity of
digital image processing it is mainly"
217.049,5.131,"because of the two application areas or
the two causes we can say that are"
222.18,4.5,"listed here so here we can say that the
motivation behind digital image"
226.68,4.79,"processing is due to two principal
application areas the first one is"
231.47,5.5,"improvement of pictorial information for
human interpretation and the second one"
236.97,3.08,"is
thing of image data for storage"
240.05,5.74,"transmission and representation of
autonomous machine perception so here"
245.79,5.13,"these two points are very much important
whatever the information we get from a"
250.92,5.1,"certain image that is address into the
first point we always want more"
256.02,5.76,"information to be obtained so from the
image we want the pictorial information"
261.78,5.46,"to be imprudent for our interpretation
human interpretation we can say and when"
267.24,5.49,"the task of storage of that particular
information to reproduce it later on or"
272.73,4.85,"to transmit that information from one
place to another place and"
277.58,6.07,"representation onto the displays of the
modern computers or the modern machines"
283.65,4.98,"we can say the second point is said that
processing of email data for storage"
288.63,4.08,"transmission and representation of
autonomous machine perception so these"
292.71,4.65,"are the two causes because of which the
high development into the digital image"
297.36,6.63,"processing has taken up further we shall
see in the three terms for the subject"
303.99,4.14,"that is digital image processing and
here out of these three terms we first"
308.13,5.34,"of all begin with the middle term that
is what exactly the image is then we"
313.47,5.28,"shall see what exactly the digital image
is and then lastly we can see the"
318.75,5.19,"digital image processing so very first
of all the question is what is image"
323.94,5.97,"here so regarding the image we can say
that it is the projection of 3d scene"
329.91,5.46,"into the 2d plane whatever we see with
our bare eyes that is actually a"
335.37,5.46,"three-dimensional view that we can model
with the help of three axis X Y Z that"
340.83,6.66,"we have to do the representation onto a
2d plane or a plane of paper we can say"
347.49,6.69,"so here the three axis XYZ the 3d scene
we have to model in terms of only the"
354.18,6.69,"two axis that exactly means the image so
here the example with this with the help"
360.87,6.24,"of this picture we can see so this is a
tree into the three-dimensional view or"
367.11,4.2,"three-dimensional scene we can see that
we have captured an image"
371.31,5.76,"into the two-dimensional plane here so
this is the general interpretation of"
377.07,7.56,"what exactly the image is now talking
further we can have a simple model here"
384.63,6.99,"as the natural source of capturing image
is our eye so here we can have into the"
391.62,4.41,"scenario the two objects into this
diagram you can see that the two objects"
396.03,6.389,"are of same dimensions but they are
located apart from each other so the"
402.419,5.641,"first object is near to the eye the
second object is far from the eye so"
408.06,5.84,"whatever the image that generally we say
is formed onto the retina that will be a"
413.9,4.69,"2-dimensional image for our
interpretation and here though the two"
418.59,5.43,"objects are of same and I mentions the
object that is near to I that is having"
424.02,4.709,"the higher dimensions into the image and
that is far away from the eye that is"
428.729,5.281,"having the smaller dimensions into the
two-dimensional view here so the 3d"
434.01,5.52,"scene that we are going to model into
the 2d plane that exactly is the image"
439.53,5.34,"here further we can say that
mathematically talking we can have the"
444.87,6.06,"definition a two-dimensional function f
of X y where x and y are the spatial"
450.93,5.85,"coordinates and F at any pair of
coordinates of X Y is called intensity"
456.78,5.43,"or a gray level of the image at that
point so here we can take the two axis x"
462.21,7.41,"and y so x and y will give the spatial
coordinates the location of the elements"
469.62,5.91,"of this particular image so defining the
exact values of x and y at that"
475.53,4.17,"particular location there is third
parameter that is yep we shall give us"
479.7,5.43,"the intensity of the gray level of the
image at that particular point so"
485.13,6.69,"depending on the XY and F values we can
have the classification of image into"
491.82,5.67,"the two types that is analog image and
what is our important one that is"
497.49,5.549,"digital image so let us first of all
talk about what exactly the analog image"
503.039,6.241,"is then later on we shall see
digital image so for analog image first"
509.28,4.86,"of all the accepted definition for
simply the image is a two-dimensional"
514.14,5.52,"function f of X Y where x and y are the
spatial coordinates and F at any pair of"
519.66,5.79,"coordinates XY is called the intensity
or gray level of the image at that"
525.45,5.01,"particular point so the additional
things for the image to be analog image"
530.46,6.84,"is that when these the de presentations
has the continuous range of values for f"
537.3,7.74,"x and y representing the position by X Y
and the intensity by the parameter F so"
545.04,4.98,"that time we can say that the image is
analog image the example of analogue"
550.02,6.66,"image can be given as the image produce
onto the screen of CRT monitor the"
556.68,6.21,"storage requirement for such analog
image is having the high memory further"
562.89,4.17,"we can talk about the digital image
which is of more concern to this"
567.06,4.47,"particular subject digital image
processing so again we have the accepted"
571.53,4.32,"definition of image into the
mathematical form it is a function f of"
575.85,5.55,"X Y X Y being the spatial coordinates
and F is the intensity or the gray level"
581.4,5.04,"of the image so when these three
parameters are discrete into the nature"
586.44,6.33,"all X Y and F in other words we can say
are all the finite quantities that time"
592.77,4.86,"we can say that the image is a digital
image so just now we have seen the two"
597.63,5.57,"types of images basically that is analog
image and that are digital image so"
603.2,5.98,"generally in our world we have the
analog everything but for the storage"
609.18,4.41,"purpose for the transmission purpose we
convert it to the digital domain with"
613.59,5.73,"the help of digital computers so how to
obtain a digital image from the analog"
619.32,5.58,"image so for that purpose this simple
procedure is to be obtained from the"
624.9,4.77,"analog image we have to do the sampling
the sampling will have the"
629.67,5.7,"discretization in terms of x and y after
sampling we have quantization which will"
635.37,3.029,"have the discretization onto the f
parameter"
638.399,5.79,"and after sampling and quantization we
obtain the form of image to be the"
644.189,6.781,"digital image so this is exactly the
digital image is so more information"
650.97,4.5,"regarding digital image we can say that
it contains finite number of elements as"
655.47,7.77,"all the three parameters X Y and F are
all discretized here so these number of"
663.24,5.279,"elements given with the discrete values
of x and y we can say each is having a"
668.519,6.781,"particular location and a certain value
of F here further such elements we can"
675.3,6.539,"call the picture elements also called as
image elements pills or pixels pixel is"
681.839,6.091,"the most widely term that is used for
representation of such elements into the"
687.93,5.579,"digital image so what are the advantages
of having such a digital image the"
693.509,5.041,"advantage is that past processing as the
memory requirement is less as compared"
698.55,5.19,"to the analog image it is cost effective
it has effective storage effective"
703.74,5.31,"transmission from one place to another
along with the scope for versatile image"
709.05,5.699,"manipulation image manipulations we can
do with the digital image so what are"
714.749,5.161,"the disadvantages the disadvantages is
that high memory is required if you want"
719.91,5.779,"the good quality of images and hence
requires the past processors here"
725.689,5.531,"further if you like to compare the
analog image and the digital image here"
731.22,6.26,"we have a sample picture here the first
image is having a very precise"
737.48,5.469,"curvatures the edges we can see hence
the storage of this particular image"
742.949,6.601,"requires higher memory this image can be
said to be the analog here all the X Y"
749.55,6.479,"and F value are continuous here whereas
into this second part that is said to be"
756.029,6.3,"the digital one the things of X Y and F
are discretized here they are not the"
762.329,4.5,"continuous range of values for X Y and
yep that is the basic difference between"
766.829,4.591,"the analog and the digital image now
further we shall see"
771.42,5.19,"exactly the digital image processing is
up till now we have seen what exactly"
776.61,4.59,"the digital image mean so we shall see
the processing so into a single line we"
781.2,4.49,"can say that the analysis and
manipulation of the digitized image"
785.69,5.44,"especially in order to improve its
quality is said to be the digital image"
791.13,5.16,"processing in other words we can say
that processing of digital images my"
796.29,5.55,"main swap digital computer for specific
applications is actually the digital"
801.84,5.49,"digital image processing here now what
are the advantages offered by the"
807.33,5.52,"digital image processing the advantages
offered are as we know the human beings"
812.85,6.21,"all of us are limited to the visual band
of electromagnetic spectrum but as we"
819.06,5.4,"talk about the storage transmission with
the help of machines exactly we can see"
824.46,5.12,"or the digital computers so the imaging
machines cover almost the entire"
829.58,6.28,"spectrum ranging from gamma used to the
radius as we are confined to only the"
835.86,4.86,"visual band the machines can cover the
entire electromagnetic spectrum so"
840.72,5.64,"further those operating onto the images
generated by sources that humans are not"
846.36,5.07,"capable to since we can have into the
digital image processing so these"
851.43,6.39,"include ultrasound electron microscopy
and computer generated image hence I can"
857.82,5.58,"conclude that the advantage of using
digital image processing is to have more"
863.4,5.3,"information that only the human beings
directly are not related to"
868.7,5.02,"so after advantages of digital image
processing let us address what is the"
873.72,5.13,"exact scoop on digital image processing
the very first point we can say here"
878.85,5.01,"that there is no general agreement where
the image processing exactly stops and"
883.86,4.92,"the other related areas such as the
image analysis the computer vision start"
888.78,5.58,"here along with this the distinction
some time for digital image processing"
894.36,5.04,"is made that it is defined as a
discipline in which of both the input"
899.4,4.26,"and output of the process are the images
here"
903.66,5.19,"but this definition is sometimes
limiting and somewhat artificial"
908.85,5.61,"boundary for that purpose we have this
simple example here if the if the task"
914.46,5.6,"of computing the average intensity of an
image which is exactly a single number"
920.06,5.65,"so according to this definition would
not be considered as image processing"
925.71,5.19,"operation but we know that it is a task
that is associated into the digital"
930.9,4.35,"image processing only so there is no
general agreement and no general"
935.25,5.55,"definition where we can exactly say the
scope of digital image processing is"
940.8,4.47,"defined here so further we can say that
there are the fields like computer"
945.27,5.19,"vision which use the computers to
emulate the human region including the"
950.46,5.97,"learning and being made able to make the
inferences and take the actions based on"
956.43,6.66,"to the visual inputs here thus a branch
of artificial intelligence AI we can"
963.09,5.61,"abbreviate whose objective is to emulate
the human intelligence is here it is the"
968.7,4.83,"computer region and hence the area of
image analysis along with these"
973.53,4.41,"understandings we can say image
understanding for the image analysis"
977.94,6.69,"also it is in between the image
processing and computer vision so as the"
984.63,5.91,"digital image processing the start and
end lines are not clear-cut we have a"
990.54,5.25,"paradigm which is useful in the world of
images so useful paradigm in the world"
995.79,4.77,"of images we can see that consideration
of the three types of computerised"
1000.56,5.91,"processes we can say low level processes
mid level processes and finally the high"
1006.47,4.68,"level processes talking about the first
process that is the low level process we"
1011.15,5.61,"can say that this involves primitive
operations such as image pre-processing"
1016.76,5.52,"to reduce the noise to have the contrast
enhancement and to have image sharpening"
1022.28,5.37,"so further this low level process is
actually characterized by the fact that"
1027.65,6.15,"both the inputs and outputs are the
images so this we can say is exactly the"
1033.8,3.44,"low level process
further talking about the mid-level"
1037.24,6.27,"process we can say that it involved the
tasks such as image segmentation that we"
1043.51,3.99,"are going to see into the details into
the next chapters definitely the"
1047.5,5.25,"description of those objects to reduce
them to a form suitable for computer"
1052.75,5.52,"processing and classification of
individual objects so the mid-level"
1058.27,4.56,"process is characterized by the fact
that its inputs are generally the images"
1062.83,4.89,"but the outputs are actually the
attributes extracted from these images"
1067.72,6.0,"the attributes are in the form of a J's
contours and the identity of the"
1073.72,5.61,"individual objects here finally the last
one that is the third that is high level"
1079.33,4.56,"process according to this useful
paradigm it involves making sense of the"
1083.89,5.789,"in symbol of the recognized objects as
in the image analysis and at the far end"
1089.679,5.341,"performing the functions normally
associated with the pigeon hence by the"
1095.02,4.74,"title useful paradeen in the world of
images we can address right from the"
1099.76,5.43,"digital image processing to image
analysis and finally the computer region"
1105.19,5.849,"so in this course into the digital image
processing we are going to address first"
1111.039,4.951,"of all the first chapter introduction to
digital image processing the every"
1115.99,4.679,"detail of digital image and processing
along with the application fundamental"
1120.669,5.431,"steps the components that we are going
to see into this first topic that is the"
1126.1,4.65,"introduction to digital image processing
this particular chapter will followed by"
1130.75,6.12,"the second chapter that is digital image
fundamentals after that we have the"
1136.87,4.4,"different image transforms which will be
having the mathematical interpretation"
1141.27,6.22,"associated with this chapter with the
subject digital image processing next to"
1147.49,4.669,"that we have the image enhancement the
improvement of information in the"
1152.159,6.52,"spatial domain also the image
enhancement into the frequency domain we"
1158.679,4.711,"have image restoration here the image
enhancement into the spatial and"
1163.39,4.9,"frequency domain and image restoration
all are having the same note"
1168.29,4.86,"the different procedures different types
to work on to the improvement of"
1173.15,4.32,"material information after image
restoration we have the color image"
1177.47,5.1,"processing right from the first chapter
to this particular chapter we have the"
1182.57,4.89,"binary images and the grayscale images
address for such operations and here we"
1187.46,4.38,"start with exactly the color image
processing it will be followed by the"
1191.84,4.68,"very popular and the potential tools
that is wavelets and multi-resolution"
1196.52,5.22,"processing here the resolution is at
multiple level and it is having a very"
1201.74,5.49,"potential tool into the applications of
the digital image processing cordell we"
1207.23,5.91,"have the image compression where we are
going to minimize the memory requirement"
1213.14,5.16,"to store and to transmit the image from
one place to another place along with"
1218.3,4.83,"some morphological image processing
after image compression and image"
1223.13,5.67,"segmentation we have further we have
representation and a description of"
1228.8,5.52,"image and finally we have the object
recognition so starting with"
1234.32,4.08,"introduction to exactly the digital
image and further digital image"
1238.4,5.97,"processing we end up onto the object
recognition so the objects into the"
1244.37,5.13,"digital image are going to be recognized
how what are the ways to recognize them"
1249.5,3.84,"that we will definitely see so these are
actually the chapters that we are going"
1253.34,5.37,"to follow into the entire subject along
with the theoretical understandings and"
1258.71,5.07,"certain these Linnaeus problems to
practice on we have the MATLAB code e to"
1263.78,4.44,"give you the exact demonstration of the
image enhancement image restoration"
1268.22,5.04,"various processing of the images the
image transform we shall be working with"
1273.26,5.4,"along with these other topics so this is
the course content for the subject"
1278.66,4.11,"digital image processing
now the summary of this particular"
1282.77,5.46,"review we can make we have seen what is
image what is digital image which is no"
1288.23,4.41,"more concern to us further what is
digital image processing I hope you are"
1292.64,5.13,"now understood well further advantages
of digital image processing we have seen"
1297.77,4.15,"the scope of digital image processing
and this hope we have address"
1301.92,5.49,"with a useful parody into the world of
images finally we have seen just now the"
1307.41,4.56,"course contents here so this was the
summary into the next lecture we are"
1311.97,4.89,"going to address the new topic from the
chapter number one the topic name is"
1316.86,4.98,"origins of digital image processing so
for getting such more copies more"
1321.84,3.84,"information onto the subject
digital image processing you can"
1325.68,4.13,subscribe to equal a channel thank you
1335.77,2.06,you
